.\" @(#)coast.1 - 1.3
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH COAST 1 3/10/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
coast - create an map overlay from a coastline file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B coast
[ -oci [args]]
[ -m ] def_file
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Coast
is a graphic function in the MAPGEN
graphic series which provides for creating map overlays from
compressed line data files.
.P
Most of the following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI "[ \-m ]" " def_file"
This option specifies the required map definition file.
If the
.B \-m
is omitted,
.I def_file
must be the first file listed.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
This option specifies the map overlay metagraphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
If this option is specified, a plot of the coastline file is
output to the controlling terminal.
It the
.B \-o
option is omitted, then
.B \-i
is implied.
.TP
.BI \-c " string"
This options provides for run-line inclusion of graphic options.
.TP
.BI \-s " file"
The optional
.I file
contains additional graphic control options.
.P
One or more
.I files
of compressed coastline source data may be specified.
These
.I file
names are ".cdr"/".cdt" suffixed files generally created by
.I mkcoast.
.P
The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the
.B \-c
run-line field or the
.B \-s
control file.
Note that symbol line generation is supported and if selected the
.B "\-s, \-a, \-c,"
and
.B \-r
options must be specified.
.P
When multiple feature codes are selected the line characteristics
of the previous feature code selection remain in effected until
altered by a new option.
.TP
.BI \-a " str"
.I Str
may contain up to 8 characters of symbols to be used with symbol line
generation.
.TP
.BI \-c " name"
.I Name
is the name of the symbol font to be employed with symbol line
generation.
.TP
.BI \-r " dist"
.I Dist
is the inter-symbol distance in centimeters when employing symbol lines.
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
.I Size
is the nominal size of the line symbols in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-k
.br
Do not draft the symbol line with intervening line.
Default mode.
.TP
.BI \-l
.br
Connect line symbols with selected line method.
.TP
.BI \-f " ns[-ne][,ns2[-ne2] ... ]"
This option provides for selection of only those line segments in the coastline
files which have the selected feature codes.
.I Ns
specifies the lower range of the feature code number.
If
.I ne
is specified, it will define the upper range; otherwise, only
the 
.I ns
value is employed.
There may be more than one set of 
.I ns\-ne
sets.
For example:
.br
	-f 0-10,20,30-35
.br
specifies feature codes 0 to 10, 20 and 30 to 35.
Omission of this option implies that all feature codes are to be plotted.
.TP
.BI \-d " size,mask"
This option specifies that dashed lines are to be employed with
.I size
specified in real centimeters.
.I Mask
is either a decimal, octal, or hecadecimal number specifying the dash pattern.
.TP
.BI \-m " n"
.br
.I N
is a mechanical pen to be employed with the coastline feature.
.P
Each of the above options may be repeated for different sets of feature codes
by delimiting each set with a \-.
If there is an overlap of feature code specification, the last
feature code set in the control list is selected.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following line will create a coastline overlay
.I coast.ov
with dashed lines:
.br
   coast -m *.def /coast/LIM_25 -o coast.ov \e
     -c "-f 7,11 -d .5,0xcccc - -f 31-32 -d .5,0x5555" 
.br
.SH FILES
 .cdr and .cdt compressed compressed coastline files.
 MAPGEN definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
 MAPGEN system documentation,
 Program mkcoast.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
 Error monitoring only.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
