.\" @(#)fence.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH FENCE 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
fence - create fence/profile data overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B fence
[ -oci [args]]
[ -m ] def_file
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fence
is a graphic function in the
.I mapgen
graphic series which provides for creating fence or profile
map overlays from geographic coordinate and 'z' axis data field[s].
.P
Most of the following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI "[ \-m ]" " def_file"
This option specifies the required map definition file.
If the
.B \-m
is omitted,
.I def_file
must be the first file listed.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
This option specifies the map overlay meta-graphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
If this option is specified a "preview" of the graphic file is
output to the controlling terminal.
It the
.BI \-o
option is omitted, then
.BI \-i
is implied.
.TP
.BI \-c " string"
This options provides for run-line inclusion of graphic options
listed below.
If there is more than one option or imbedded blanks,
the field must be enclosed in quotes or apostrophies.
.P
One or more data
.I files
that contain geographic, posting and control data.
If no files are specified,
or if a - argument is encountered,
.B fence
reads from the standard input.
Files are processed in left to right order.
.P
The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the
.I \-c
run-line field or the data file[s].
Control data in the data files must be on lines with a '#' character
in column one.
A second '#' character on these lines causes the remainder of the
line to be ignore and, consequently, may be used for comments.
.TP
.BI \-b
This option specifies a "break" in the line.
Drafting of all data channels
will be discontinued at the last point and restarted
at the next data point.
.TP
.BI \-d " flon,flat"
.I Flon
and
.I flat
are the respective field control words of the longitude and
latitude data fields (data must be in DMS format).
Both field control words are of the form
.I [f][.[o][.l]]
where
.I f
is the field number,
.I o
is the number of characters to skip from the beginning of the
field, and
.I l
is the length of the field.
If 
.I l
is not specified or 0, then the remainder of the field is employed.
If
.I f
or
.I o
are omitted then 1 and 0 are respective assumptions.
If this option is omitted then a default of "-d 2,1" is assumed.
.TP
.BI \-c " n"
This option selects the z axis data 'channel'
for reference by the line control options.
Values of
.I n
correspond to the field values specified by the
.BI \-f
option.
If
.I n <= 0
then line control refers to the pen drafting fence posts and other
options.
The default channel selected at start-up is 1.
.TP
.BI \-f " ff1[,ff2,...,ffn]"
The value of
.I ffn
defines the data field[s] to be drafted.
The format of
.I ffn
is the same form as for the "-d" option.
Specification of the data fields should be made only once.
.TP
.BI \-D " m"
If the value of
.I m
is d then dash line mode is selected otherwise solid line mode.
.TP
.BI \-m " arg"
.I Arg
is the value for the dash line mask for the currently selected channel.
It is treated as a 16 bit quantity where each on bit is a
solid segment of the dashed line.
Note that it must be entered as a decimal, octal or hexadecimal value
(123, 0123 or 0x123 respectively).
.TP
.BI \-s " cm"
.I Cm
is the size of the dash line interval in centimeters for the currently
selected channel.
If the value of
.I cm
is zero, solid line mode is assumed.
.TP
.BI \-l
Start drafting of the currently selected channel.
To terminate drafting of current channel see
.BI \-q.
.TP
.BI \-q
Stop drafting of current channel.
To restart drafting of a channel see
.BI \-l.
.TP
.BI \-p " n"
.I N
is the mechanical pen to be employed for the currently
specified channel.
.TP
.BI \-v " n"
If this option controls vertical bar or "fence post" drafting.
If
.I m
is =1 a single fence post will be drafted at the next point,
if >1 fence posts will be drafted at each point,
and if <=0 fence post drafting terminated.
The initial value is 0.
.TP
.BI \-S " z_min,z_max,c_min,c_max"
The values of
.I z_min/max
and
.I c_min/max
define the respective data and centimeter values of
the vertical axis scaling range.
Z-axis scaling is determined by the equivalency of
.I z_min
to
.I c_min
and
.I z_max
to
.I c_max.
If the values of
.I c_min/max
are negative they are below the datum value of the geographic
coordinate location.
The z values are not windowed and may be plotted beyond the
ranges specified.
Positive
.I c_min
or negative
.I c_max
values should be avoided as they will cause the fence pole
to float above or below the geographic coordinate.
This parameter must be specied and applies to all channels selected.
.TP
.BI \-r " ang"
.I Ang
is the clockwise angle (in degrees) that the z axis is
to be shifted from the vertical.
The default value is 0 degrees.
.TP
.BI \-t "c"
The character
.I c,
immediately following
.B \-t,
delimits data fields on data records (default: "t\et" (tab)).
Use of special characters may require quote mark enclosure.
.TP
.BI \-z "c"
The character
.I c
immediately following z
will replace the normal # character indicating control line
and comment.
.SH FILES
 Map definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
 Mapgen system documentation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
 Error monitoring only.
.SH BUGS
Too early to tell (probably).
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
