.nr LL 5.5i
.\" @(#)getcoast.1 - 1.1
.TH GETCOAST 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
getcoast - extract data from a compressed coastline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B getcoast
left_lon right_lon lata latb
[ -f ] [ -r ] [ -D ] [ -b ]
file[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Getcoast
extracts vector information from compressed coastline files and
outputs the information on
.I stdout.
.P
Four geographic coordinate values on the command line are
required to specify the geographic range of the retrieved data.
The first two are respective lefthand and righthand longitude range.
Ordering of longitude is critical because of the ambiquity caused by the
cyclic nature of longitude values.
Ordering of the latitude range is not critical other than
|latitude| \(<= 90\(de.
Values are to be specified in \s-2DMS\s+2 format.
To retrieve all data use: -180 180 -90 90.
.P
The following optional command line
parameters must follow geographic range specifications:
.TP
.BI \-f " ns[-ne][,ns2[-ne2] ... ]"
This option provides for selection of only those line segments in the coastline
files which have the selected feature codes.
.I Ns
specifies the lower range of the feature code number.
If
.I ne
is specified, it will define the upper range; otherwise, only
the 
.I ns
value is employed.
There may be more than one set of 
.I ns\-ne
sets.
For example:
.br
	-f 0-10,20,30-35
.br
specifies feature codes 0 to 10, 20 and 30 to 35.
Omission of this option implies that all feature codes are to be selected.
.TP
.BI \-r
Normal output order of the coordinates on each line is
latitude \(em longitude.
Use of the
.B \-r
option will reverse the order to longitude \(em latitude.
.TP
.B \-D
The
.B \-D
option will cause the data output to be expressed in
\s-2DMS\s+2 (degrees,minutes,seconds) format.
Default format is decimal degrees.
.TP
.BI \-b "string"
Breaks or discontinuities of the vector stream may be changed
to a line containing
.I string.
If a null \fIstring\fR is specified (ie. -b"") break
records will not be ouput.
The default break record consists of "# -b".
.P
One or more
.I files
of compressed coastline source data may be specified.
These
.I file
names are ".cdr"/".cdt" suffixed files generally created by
.I mkcoast.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following selects vectors with feature codes 1 through 3
from a World Data Bank II North America coastline, islands and lakes file:
.br
	\f(CWgetcoast -110 -106 44 46.1 -f 1-3 /usr/coast/na/cil\fR
.SH FILES
\&.cdr and .cdt compressed coastline files.
.SH SEE ALSO
coast, mcoast, strpcst
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
