.\" @(#)grid.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH GRID 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
grid - create axis grid overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B grid
[ -oci [args]]
[ -m ] def_file
file[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Grid
provides a mechanism for producing a coordinate grid
overlay for
.I mapgen
maps.
.P
Most of the following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI "[ \-m ]" " def_file"
This option specifies the required map definition file.
If the
.B \-m
is omitted,
.I def_file
must be the first file listed.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
This option specifies the map overlay meta-graphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
If this option is specified, a plot of the coastline file is
output to the controlling terminal.
It the
.BI \-o
option is omitted, then
.BI \-i
is implied.
.P
One or more
.I files
containing control and graphic operations associated with the
grid overlay.

The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the control file[s].
Note that several of the commands must have either a
.I m
for meridian or
.I p
for parallel prefix to denote the respective axis to which the
subsequent option applies.
.TP
.BI \-d " n"
The decimal value of 
.B n
specifies the distance in centimeters that the label is to be
offset from the beginning or end of the axis line.
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
.I Size
is the nominal size of the character set selected in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-f " font"
.I Font
specifies an alternate
.I graphics
system font to be employed.
Note that the
.I graphics
system default standard font is employed to ensure presence
of special symbols.
.TP
.BI \-a " sides"
.I Sides
may be a sequence of letters l, r, b or t which flag respective
left, right, bottom or top edges of the map grid to be annotated.
If omitted, all edges are annotated (same as "-a lrbt").
If
.I sides
contains any set of letters not in the above set, then annotation
is suppressed (i.e., "-a n").
Note that the relative edge denotation is based on an unrotated
geographic axis.
.TP
.BI \-(m|p)i " dms"
The
.I dms
value is the interval of the major grid elements in
.I DMS
format.
.TP
.BI \-(m|p)j " n"
.I N
is the number of minor intervals defined by
tick marks to be evenly distributed
in the major grid interval.
A value of <= 1 or omitted (default) denotes no minor interval.
.TP
.BI \-(m|p)u " cm"
If ticked mode selected
.I u
sets the size of the major tick marks in centimeters.
If omitted, then solid lines generated.
.TP
.BI \-(m|p)v " cm"
Similar to
.I u
option except applies to minor ticks.
If omitted, minor ticks not generated.
.TP
.BI \-b " n"
Selects mechanical pen
.I n
for grid drafting.
.TP
.BI \-c " n"
Selects mechanical pen
.I n
for character drafting.
If not selected then
.I \-b
is employed if selected.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example will generate a solid line grid on
20-degree intervals with one intermediate tick mark.
.sp
	grid -oi world.def grid.ov gridcon
.sp
where "gridcon" contains:
.sp
 	-s .3 -d .5 # using standard font
 	-mi 20 -mj 2 -mv .3 # meridians
 	-pijv 20 2 .3 # parallels (same but different form)
.SH FILES
 Mapgen definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
 Mapgen system documentation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error monitoring only.
.SH BUGS
Too early to tell (probably).
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
