.\" @(#)lines.1 - 1.2
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH LINES 1 9/27/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
lines - create line/point data overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B lines
[ -oci [args]]
[ -m ] def_file
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Lines
is a graphic function in the MAPGEN
graphic series which provides for creating line, point and/or posting
map overlays from geographic coordinate data file[s].
Although
.I lines
performs many of the same operations as
.I points,
it is recomended that
.I points
be employed when dealing with purely
posting/point operations as it suffers considerably less
overhead than
.I lines.
.P
Most of the following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI "[ \-m ]" " def_file"
This option specifies the required map definition file.
If the
.B \-m
is omitted,
.I def_file
must be the first file listed.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
This option specifies the map overlay metagraphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
If this option is specified, a plot of the graphic file is
output to the controlling terminal.
If the
.B \-o
option is omitted, then
.B \-i
is implied.
.TP
.BI \-c " string"
This options provides for run-line inclusion of graphic options
listed below.
If there is more than one option or imbedded blanks,
the field must be enclosed in quotes or apostrophies.
.P
One or more data
.I files
that contain geographic, posting, and control data.
If no files are specified,
or if a - argument is encountered,
.B lines
reads from the standard input.
Files are processed in left to right order.
.P
The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the
.B \-c
run-line field or the data file[s].
Control data in the data files must be on lines with a # character
in column one.
A second # character on these lines causes the remainder of the
line to be ignored and, consequently, may be used for comments.
.P
There are three basic modes of
.B lines
operation:
.I point
plotting where a symbol is displayed at each
geographic coordinate,
.I posting
where one or more fields of
data from the data record are printed at the geographic point
and 
.I line
drafting between data points.
Consequently, several options require either
an s, c or l prefix to denote whether
the option applies to the respective point, posting, or line control.
For example,
.B \-sf
selects point font while
.B \-sc
selects the posting font.
.P
Line drafting has three methods of display: solid lines,
dashed lines and symbol lines.
Symbol lines are similar to dashed lines except that the graphic
employed in lieu of the dash segment may be any character(s) from
the symbol character font.
The symbol line form may be combined with either the solid or
dashed line option.
The font selected by the
.B -sf
(select symbol font) determines the
character set used by the the symbol line generator.
.TP
.BI \-a " str"
.I Str
is any set of one to 8 symbols selected from the character symbol
font to be employed in a repeated manner when drafting symbol lines.
A special symbol (\e177) may be employed to denote an empty
point in the symbol sequence.
Any symbol (including the empty point symbol)
with the most significant bit (sign) set will cause 180\(de
rotation of the current and following
.I str
(if any) symbols.
At the start of each cycle through
.I str
the rotation rotation is set to 0\(de so that if a line is progressing
from left to right the symbol would appear right side up.
If a single symbol is to appear in a reverse manner then
\e200 should be added (i.e. a reverse rotation letter A would be \e301).
To create a sequence of symbols with
alternating rotation then two or more
symbols must be used with the sign set on some symbol other than
the first.
For example, \f(CW\-a A\e301\fR will cause the letter A to be
plotted with alternating rotation.
.TP
.B \-B
This starts line drafting in a manner similar to the
.B \-l
option except that the following data coordinates contain
intermediate Bezier points that will cause smooth line interpolation.
Bezier option must be respecified whenever line drafting is suspended
by a
.B \-lq
option.
.TP
.BI \-R n
This option provides for the generation of rhumb lines
(lines of constant azimuth) when
.I n
is a positive value.
The larger the value of
.B n
the coarser the rhumb fit will be and the greater likelyhood of
visible straigh line segments.
Generally a selection of
.B \-R 3
is considered and optimal value for publication work.
When
.I n
zero or absent normal lines directly connecting coordinates are employed.
When employed with non-rhumb lines in a single control-data file a
.B \-b
should separate line segments.
.TP
.BI \-b
This option specifies a break in the line.
Line drafting will be discontinued at the last point and restarted
at the next data point.
.TP
.BI \-c
When
.B \-c
occurs as a solitary option, the subsequent data posting fields are to
be plotted.
.TP
.BI \-sc " arg"
This option selects the point symbol to be employed.
If
.I arg
is a numeric value then it is the numeric selection of the symbol
otherwise the ascii value.
.TP
.BI \-d " flon,flat"
.I Flon
and
.I flat
are the respective field control words of the longitude and
latitude data fields (data must be in DMS format).
Both field control words are of the form
.B [f][.[o][.l]]
where
.B f
is the field number,
.B o
is the number of characters to skip from the beginning of the
field, and
.B l
is the length of the field.
If 
.B l
is not specified or 0, then the remainder of the field is employed.
If
.B f
or
.B o
are omitted then 1 and 0 are respective assumptions.
If this option is omitted then a default value of "-d 2,1" is assumed.
.TP
.BI \-f " ff1[,ff2,...,ffn]"
The list of field control words following this option defines the
data fields to be posted.
The format of
.I ff
is the same as for the
.B \-d
option.
.TP
.BI \-ld
This option selects dashed mode for line drafting.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]f " name"
.I Name
is the name of a graphic system font to be employed for the
point (s) or posting (c) operations.
.TP
.BI \-cj " chr"
.I Chr
selects justification mode for posting data:
c for centered, l for left and r for right.
Default justification is left.
Note that
.B c
is currently required.
.TP
.BI \-kd " dist"
.I Dist
is the interval (in cm.) between symbols during symbol line mode.
.TP
.BI \-k [k|l]
This option will select drafting of a symbol line.
If the character (immediately following
.B -k
is a k then the line will be drafted without a solid or dashed connection
otherwise the letter l will select line drafting.
Note that the
.B -l
or
.B -lq
parameter is still required to control beginning and ending of
the line drafting operation regardless of mode.
The
.B -a,
.B -kd
and
.B -ks
options should be appropriately set before this option.
To deselect this option use either the
.B -ls
or
.B -ld
line mode parameters.
.TP
.BI \-l
When
.B \-l
occurs as a solitary option, then line plotting is to commence at subsequent
data values.
.TP
.BI \-cl " n"
Set the interline spacing (leading) to
.I n
/ 8 times the character size.
If not specified for multiple fields, the posting data will
overplot.
A typical value of 12 (1.5 times) usually works well.
.TP
.BI \-ll
Turn perform line drafting with a solid line (default option).
.TP
.BI \-lm " arg"
.I Arg
is the value for the dash line mask.
It is treated as a 16-bit quantity where each on bit is a
solid segment of the dashed line.
Note that it must be entered as a decimal, octal, or hexadecimal value
(e.g., 123, 0123 or 0x123 respectively).
.TP
.BI \-p " n"
.I N
is the mechanical pen to be employed.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c|l]q
Discontinue point (s), posting (c) or line (l) plotting mode.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]r " ang"
If
.I ang
is a numeric value, it is
is the number of counterclockwise degrees the posted data (c) or
point symbol (s) is to be rotated about the geographic point.
If
.I ang
is the letter o or p, then the point symbol or posting is to be
made respectively orthogonal or parallel to the track of data points.
.TP
.BI \-s
When
.B \-s
occurs as a solitary option,
then point plotting is to commence at subsequent data values.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c|l|k]s " size"
.I Size
is the nominal size of the characters for point (s), posting (c),
or symbol line characters (k) or the
dash line interval (l) in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-t "c"
The character
.I c,
immediately following
.B \-t,
delimits data fields on data records (default: "t\et" (tab)).
Use of special characters may require quote mark enclosure.
.TP
.BI \-cx " cm"
.I Cm
is the number of centimeters
along the x-axis the beginning of the posting
string is to be offset from the geographic coordinate location.
Note: offset is made prior to rotation.
.TP
.BI \-cy " cm"
Option similar to
.B \-cx
except that it is used for offset along the y-axis.
.TP
.BI \-z "c"
The character
.I c
immediately following
.B \-z
will replace the normal # character that indicate control line
and comment.
.SH FILES
 Map definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
 MAPGEN system documentation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
 Error monitoring only.
.SH BUGS
Too early to tell (probably).
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
