.\" @(#)mapdef.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH MAPDEF 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
mapdef - create, modify or display map definition file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B mapdef
[ -cspvk [args]] [ -m ] file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Mapdef
is used for creating the map definition file
required by all
.I MAPGEN
programs creating overlays.
Modifying scale and window
parameters and displaying current characteristcs of definition file parameters
may also be performed by
.I mapdef.
.P
The following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI "[ \-m ]" " file"
.I File
is the name of the map definition file and must be specified.
The use of the
.B \-m
tag is optional and for historical reasons only.
.TP
.BI \-c
This option specifies that geographic elements of the map definition
(ie. geographic range, projection, etc. ) are to be specified
by subsequent
.I stdin
data.
If the map definition file already exits, the new information will overwrite
the previous definitions.
Unless the
.B \-s
switch is also selected the map definition file will not be
in a scaled state upon completion of execution.
.TP
.BI \-s
This option indicates that scaling (and optional rescaling) as
well as boundary control of the map definition file
will be specified by subsequent
.I stdin
data.
.TP
.BI \-p
This option provides for conversion of
.I stdin
longitude-latitude
geographic data to map space (both centimeters and plotter counts).
This option only applies when the definition file is in a scaled state.
.TP
.BI \-v
This option makes
.I MAPGEN
verbose in its prompting and diagnostics.
.TP
.BI \-k " cpc"
.I Cpc
is a real number denoting the graphic device counts per centimeter
for the plotter device intended to produce a true scale map.
The default value is installation
dependent and usually tailored to the principle hard copy plotter.
See your
.I MAPGEN
system manager if there are special requirements.
Ignoring this option should produce desired results.
.P
Subsequent control input information
determined by the option switches
is obtained from
.I stdin
in a fixed order shown in the following description.
Data responses for switch
.B \-c
are:
.TP
.BI \-c " line 1"
Geographic range in the form of westerly, easterly longitude,
southerly and northerly latitude optionally followed by central
meridian value.
If the central meridian is omitted, the mean of the specified longitude
range is used as a default.
.TP
.BI \-c " line 2"
This line contains + projection control options as employed
by program
.I proj
and must, at least, define the projection to be
employed by a "+proj=name" entry.
A reference to program
.I proj
documentation is required for
available projections and associated parameters.
.IP
In certain situations, it may be desirable to increase the
degree of polynomial approximation employed by the
.I MAPGEN
system by
beginning this line with a integral value of the polynomial degree.
When omitted, the default is
.I 8
and the maximum value is currently
.I 12.
.P
At the completion of the
.B \-c
option phase several minutes of
compute time may be required to determine the approximating
polynomial coefficients employed by the system.
.TP
.BI \-s " line 1"
A scale fraction denominator value is expected.
If a '0' is entered the system goes into
.I calibration
mode.
.TP
.BI \-s " line 1a (calibration mode only)"
longitude-latitude coordinate
pair of two points followed by their separation
in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-s " line 2"
This line should contain the counter-clockwise
rotation (in degrees) of the geographic axis relative to the plot.
A '0' or <cr> causes no rotation.
.P
At this time the size in centimeters of the area required by
the full range of geographic data is displayed when in verbose mode.
The following lines will define the final data and map windowing.
.TP
.BI \-s " line 3"
The purpose of this control line is two-fold:
specify the origin of the data area relative to the lower-left corner
of the plot and adjust the data limits defined by the geographic range.
The first two values are the respective x-y coordinates of the lower-left
corner of the data area in centimeters (default value 3 cm.).
.IP
Redefining the data region is performed by
following the origin data with up to four geographic
longitude-latitude coordinate pairs for respective
minimum x and y range and maximum x and y range.
Default values are determined by original geographic range.
.IP
Since this information is dependent upon its relative position on
the data line, indication of acceptance of leading default values
is indicated by a - for both x and y origin coordinates and a single
hyphen for longitude-latitude pairs.
For example: "- - - 140w 45n" will cause a default data origin of
3 cm. and a new minimum y data range value determined by the given
geographic coordinates.
.IP
.I Mapdef
will display the resultant size of the map at the completion of
this control line in verbose mode.
.TP
.BI \-s " line 4"
The size of the right and top margin may be specified
by entering their respective values on this line.
Default values are 3 cm.
.P
The user may determine the attributes of a previously
created definition file by using the "-v name" option.
Note that diagnostic information 
(except for errors) will not be printed unless
the verbosity switch is also selected.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following
script file will create a quadrangle definition
file for the New York UTM sheet:
.TP
 mapdef -cs NewYork.def <<EOF
 74dw 72dw 40dn 41dn
 +proj=utm
 250000
 0
 
  
 EOF
.SH FILES
 Mapgen definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
 MAPGEN system documentation,
 Proj(1).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error monitoring only.
.SH BUGS
Too early to tell (probably).
.pa
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
