.\" @(#)mcoast.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH MCOAST 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
mcoast - create compact coastline file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B mcoast
[ -bfrR [args]]
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Mcoast
is required to create the data files employed by the program
.B Coast.
Input data defining the nodes of coastline segments must be
in the following form: a record beginning with a # character
and feature code number (between 0 and 255)
followed by one or more records containing a single pair of latitude and
longitude values (separated by white space)
which define the nodes of the line.
The processing of the first line segment is not begun until the
first # record is processed.
.P
Error monitoring is provided on standard output.
.P
The above data is compressed and placed into two files:
the *.cdr file contains the lon-lat range of the line data segments
as well as pointer information to the *.cdt file which contains
the definition of the line in incremental form.
.P
The following run-line parameters can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI \-r " n"
This optional value of
.I n
establishes the resolution of the data set in "meters on the ground".
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
.I File
is required and specifies the name of the compressed data set
"file.cdt" and its
associated directory "file.cdr".
.TP
.BI \-R
This option reverses the order of the input data pair from
latitude - longitude to longitude - latitude.
.TP
.BI \-b
This option provides for the input to be in quasi-binary form
where segment headers must consist of "# code length" and
coordinates are latitude-longitude in double precision binary.
The
.B \-R
options has no effect with
.B \-b
option.
.P
One or more
.I files
of source data may be specified and are processed in
a left to right order.
If a
.I file
is not specified
.I standard input
is assumed.
A - may also signify the point of processing
.I standard input.
.SH EXAMPLE
A source file,
.I mydata
is to be preprocessed by the program
.I abc
to reformat the data into a form suitable for
.B mcoast
input.
.B Mcoast
is to create a coastline file set
.I mycoast
which has a resolution of 200 meters.
.br
	abc <mydata | mcoast -r 200 -f mycoast >monitor &
.br
The file
.I monitor
is used to collect any processing information from
.B mcoast
so that the process can be handled in batch mode.
Compressed coastline data file created will be named
.I mycoast.cdr
and
.I mycoast.cdt.
.SH FILES
 .cdr and .cdt compressed output files.
.SH SEE ALSO
 Programs coast, todeg, tobin.
.P
This program supercedes all earlier versions of coastline generators.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
 Error monitoring only.
.SH BUGS
Too early to tell (probably).
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
