.\" @(#)mkwdbii.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH MKWDBII 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
mkwdbii - create compact coastline file from WDB-II
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B mkwdbii
[ -frhdHDx [args]]
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.I Mkwdbii
is required to create the data files employed by the program
.I Coast.
This involves reading a World Data Bank II source file containing
control data
and the longitude an latitude defining
the nodes of the line.
.P
The above data is compressed and placed into two files:
the *.cdr file contains the lon-lat range of the line data segments
as well as pointer information to the *.cdt file which contains
the definition of the line in incremental form.
.P
The following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI \-r " n"
This optional value of
.I n
establishes the resolution of the data set in "meters on the ground".
.TP
.BI \-f " file"
.I File
is required and specifies the name of the compressed data set
"file.cdt" and its
associated directory "file.cdr".
.P
One or more
.I files
of source data may be specified.
If a
.I file
is not specified
.I stdin
is assumed.
.SH EXAMPLE
A World Data Bank II magnitic tape data file
is to be processed into a 25 meter resolution
'coast' file.
An appropriate
.I mkwdbii
execution might be:
.RS 5
 
 dd if=/dev/rmt8 bs=8000 conv=swab | \e
     dd ibs=8000 cbs=20 conv=ascii | \e
     mkwdbii -f NA_cil_25 -r 25
 
.RE
.SH FILES
 .cdr and .cdt compressed output files.
.SH SEE ALSO
 Program coast.
 World Data Bank II documentation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
 Error monitoring only.
.SH BUGS
Too early to tell (probably).
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
