.nr LL 5.5i
.ad b
.hy 1
.TH NAD27 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.SH NAME
NAD27, for27, inv27 \- NAD27 State plane projections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B NAD27
[
.I state
]
.br
.BI for27 " state"
[
.B \-F
] [
.BI proj "\(emparameters"
] [
.I file
\&... ]
.br
.BI inv27 " state"
[
.B \-M
] [
.BI proj "\(emparameters"
] [
.I file
\&... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B For27
and
.B inv27
provide a convenient method for specifications of respective
forward and inverse projection of geographic and state plane
coordinates.
The parameter
.I state
refers to one of the state plane systems
(listed below)
which are abbreviated by state Postal identifier
and possible sub-zone within the state.
.P
Execution of
.B NAD27
without an argument will give a complete listing of state
plane systems supported.
If the postal id is substituted employed
as the argument
.I state
then only the applicable state zones will be listed.
.sp .5
.TS
center box;
l l l l l l l l.
AK1	AZw	GAw	KSs	MNc	NJ	PAn	VAn
AK2	CA1	GU	KYn	MNn	NMc	PAs	VAs
AK3	CA2	HI1	KYs	MNs	NMe	PR	VI
AK4	CA3	HI2	LAn	MOc	NMw	RI	VIsc
AK5	CA4	HI3	LAos	MOe	NVc	SCn	VT
AK6	CA5	HI4	LAs	MOw	NVe	SCs	WAn
AK7	CA6	HI5	MAi	MSe	NVw	SDn	WAs
AK8	CA7	IAn	MAm	MSw	NYc	SDs	WIc
AK9	COc	IAs	MD	MTc	NYe	TN	WIn
AK10	COn	IDc	MEe	MTn	NYli	TXc	WIs
ALe	COs	IDe	MEw	MTs	NYw	TXn	WVn
ALw	CT	IDw	MIcl	NC	OHn	TXnc	WVs
ARn	DE	ILe	MIcm	NDn	OHs	TXs	WYe
ARs	FLe	ILw	MIe	NDs	OKn	TXsc	WYec
AS	FLn	INe	MIn	NEn	OKs	UTc	WYw
AZc	FLw	INw	MIs	NEs	ORn	UTn	WYwc
AZe	GAe	KSn	MIw	NH	ORs	UTs	
.TE
.P
The parameter
.B \-M
allows the specification of
.I meters
as the unit of the cartesian system.
.P
Other control parameters for program
.B proj
may follow including input file names.
.SH UNITS/ACCURACY
Standard foot-meter conversion is based upon the exact
relation of 2.54 cm equals 1 inch.
Unfortunately, state plane usually use the archaic
exact relation of 39.37 inches equals 1 m which is employed
(with apologies)
in this procedure.
.SH CAVEATS
Although some checking of the information contained in
this procedure has been made, the user is cautioned to perform
his own tests against conversions authorized as accurate by
appropriate state authorities.
Any discrepencies should be reported to the author.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The tables were compiled from information distributed by
Atef Elassal of
.SM NOAA.
.SH FILES
/usr/local/lib/state27
.SH SEE ALSO
proj(1)
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA
