.\" @(#)pgrid.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH PGRID 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
pgrid - create overlay of grid
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B pgrid
[ -oi [args]]
files[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pgrid
is a graphic function in the
.I PLOTGEN
graphic series which provides for creating
an overlay of axis grid.
.P
The following run-line options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
.br
This option specifies the map overlay meta-graphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
.br
If this option is specified a preview of the graphic file is
output to the controlling terminal.
It the
.B \-o
option is omitted, then
.B \-i
is implied.
.P
One or more data
.I files
that contain x-y, posting and control data.
If no files are specified,
or if a - argument is encountered,
.B ppoint
reads from the standard input.
Files are processed in left to right order.
.P
The initial control information in the input data stream
must be scaling options as defined in the
.I pltgen(5)
description.
.P
The following options provide for graphic operations:
.TP
.BI \-f " font"
.br
.I Font
is the name of the graphics system character set font to be
employed in subsequent character plotting.
A - will select the system default font.
This option and
.B -s
must be selected prior to any character
operations.
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
.br
.I Size
is the nominal size of the character set selected in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]d " del"
.br
The approximate interval of tick marks in centimeters.
The system determines the data values to be employed based on
this factor.
This option not applicable for logarithmic axis.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]t " n"
.br
If the value of
.I n
is 1 or 3 the lower (x axis) or left (y axis) will be annotated
with tick marks and 2 or 3 the top or right edge will be ticked.
Default values for both axis are 3.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]l " n"
.br
Similar to the 't' option except that
.I n
controls labeling.
Default values for both axis are 1.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]F " str"
.br
.I Str
is a C language
.B printf
format specifier for real numbers (ie. %e, %g or %f).
The default for both axis is %12.2g.
For logarithmic axis annotation only the %g or %e forms are normally applicable.
.TP
.BI \-p " pen"
.br
.I Pen
is a mechanical pen number to be employed.
.SH SEE ALSO
 Plotgen(5)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Error monitoring only.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
