.\" @(#)plegend.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH PLEGEND 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
plegend - create overlay of legend information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B plegend
[ -oi [args]]
files[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Plegend
is a graphic function in the
.I PLOTGEN
graphic series which provides for creating overlays
of legend information such as titles, neatline, etc..
.P
The following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
This option specifies the map overlay metagraphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
If this option is specified, a preview of the plot is
output to the controlling terminal.
If the
.B \-o
option is omitted, then
.B \-i
is implied.
.P
One or more
.I files
containing control and graphic operations associated with the
legend overlay.
If no files are specified or if a - argument is encountered,
.B plegend
process control data from standard input.

Initial control information must be scaling options as define in
the
.I plotgen(5)
documentation.

The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the control file[s].
.TP
.BI \-f " font"
.I Font
is the name of the graphics system character set font to be
employed in subsequent character plotting.
A - will select the system default font.
This option and
.B \-s
must be selected prior to any text operations.
.TP
.BI \-a " font"
.I Font
is similar to the
.B -f
option except that it selects an alternate character font.
This font will be selected when ^B control character
occurs in a text string.
A ^A control character will reselect the
.B -f
font.
Size and other attributes of the alternate character are
set as per the normal font.
.TP
.BI \-s " size"
.I Size
is the nominal size of the character set selected in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-S[f|s|r|c] " arg"
This option provides for control of symbol plotting in a manner
similar to character control options.
.BI \-Sf " font"
selects the symbol font,
.BI \-Ss " size"
sets symbol size, and
.BI \-Sr " ang"
sets symbol rotation.
.BI \-Sc " sym"
will post the symbol selected by
.I sym
at the current x-y coordinate.
If the first character of sym is a decimal digit then
.I sym
is assumed to be the numeric
-- decimal (1-9), octal (0n), or hexadecimal (0xn) --
value of the selected symbol;
otherwise, it is assumed to be the ascii equivalent of the
selected symbol.
.TP
.BI \-l " leading"
This option selects the desired 
.I leading
or spacing desired between multiple print lines 
generated by the
.B \-t
option.
The units of
.I leading
are in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-ox " val"
.I Val
sets offset in centimeters of character text from the selected
.B x/y
coordinates.
Offset is made before rotation.
.TP
.BI \-oy " val"
This option is similar to
.B \-ox
except that
.I val
refers to the y-axis.
.TP
.BI \-x/y " coord"
The base position of subsequent graphic options is determined
by the coordinates specified by
.B \-x
and
.B \-y
argument coordinates.
The numeric value of the
.I coord
argument is always in centimeters.
If the value is immediately preceded by a > symbol, then the coordinate is
relative to either the right or top edge of the current region.
If the value is immediately preceded by a | symbol, it is relative to the
median of the respective axis; otherwise, the
value is relative to the lower left hand corner of the currently
selected region.
See also
.B \-w
command for selection region of reference.
.TP
.BI \-w " region"
This option specifies which of the two basic regions of the
map sheet are begin referred to with the
.B \-x/y
coordinate values.
The value of
.I region
should be either p or d
corresponding to the respective basic map sheet or data region.
The effect of this command will remain in effect until another
.B \-w
command.
The default region is p.
.TP
.BI \-j " opt"
.I Opt
must be either l, c or r which respectively select
left, centered, or right justification of graphic.
.TP
.BI \-t
All lines following this option are considered text to be
plotted at the current coordinate position.
A . must appear in column 1 to terminate the text.
Note that an appropriate value of leading must have been previously
made for line spacing.
The escape sequence \eooo may be employed to enter normally non-printing
characters into the text stream by entering their octal value ooo
(\exhh may be alternately employed where hh is the hexadecimal value
of the character).
This option should not be employed on the same control line
as option
.B \-L
or
.B \-B.
.TP
.BI \-[T|E] " text"
This option allows the use of the device independent form of
.I troff
to be used to format textual material for inclusion as legend information.
The file
.B text
contains
.I troff
and/or
.I eqn
(when
.B E
option used)
source data (control and text) to be plotted.
Current
.B x
and
.B y
values will determine the location of the upper left-hand corner
of the formatted text.
It is recommended that the first control lines of the
source text be:
.br
	\\!x U <real number>i (optional page width)
.br
	.po 0  (don't bother with left margin)
.br
	.ll <real number>i (line length)
.br
The first line is required if multiple pages are expected.
The <real number> is the offset to be applied when plotting
multiple pages as multiple columns.
The i suffix in both the page width and line length options
may be either c, p, or i which specifies the respective
centimeter, point or inch units of the numeric prefix.
.TP
.BI \-r " ang"
.I Ang
is the number of degrees that character plotting operations are
to be rotated form the positive x direction.
.TP
.BI \-p " pen"
.I Pen
is a mechanical pen number to be employed.
.TP
.BI \-L " pen[,mask,size[,dist,ssize,str]]"
This option provides for drafting lines with
.I pen
mechanical pen.
If
.I mask
and
.I size
are present then the line will be drafted in dashed-line mode with
.I mask
dash pattern and
.I size
dash size in centimeters.
.IP
If
.I dist, ssize,
and
.I str
are present then a symbol line will be drawn with the symbol
font set by the
.BI \-S f
command.
.I Dist
is the inter symbol distance and
.I ssize
is the symbol size.
If line is not used to interconnect the symbols then
.I mask
should be set to 0.
A solid line is selected by
.I mask=-1
and a dashed line by any other value of
.I mask.
The contents of
.I str
should be similar to those specified by the
.I -a
commands of
.B pline.
.IP
Coordinates of the line to be drafted follow the current command
line with one x-y pair per line.
The string of coordinates must be terminated with a .
in column 1 (similar to
.B \-t
option).
Use of + and - sign prefixes follow the same meaning as
defined under the
.B \-x/y
option.
This option should not be employed on the same control line
as option
.B \-t.
.TP
.BI \-B " pen[,mask,size[,dist,ssize,str]]"
This option functions the same as
.B \-L
except that following line data must have intermediate
Bezier control points and output will be a smoothly interpolated
curve.
.SH FILES
PLOTGEN definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
pltgen(5), pline(1), troff(1) and plroff
.SH BUGS
The \-T option is only available on AT&T
UNIX V.2 or later systems with device independent
.I troff.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
