.\" @(#)points.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH POINTS 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
points - create point data overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B points
[ -oci [args]]
[ -m ] def_file
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Points
is a graphic function in the MAPGEN
graphic series which provides for creating point and/or posting
map overlays from geographic coordinate data file[s].
.P
Most of the following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI "[ \-m ]" " def_file"
This option specifies the required map definition file.
If the
.B \-m
is omitted,
.I def_file
must be the first file listed.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
This option specifies the map overlay metagraphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
If this option is specified, a plot of the graphic file is
output to the controlling terminal.
It the
.B \-o
option is omitted, then
.B \-i
is implied.
.TP
.BI \-c " string"
This options provides for run-line inclusion of graphic options
listed below.
If there is more than one option or imbedded blanks,
the field must be enclosed in quotes or apostrophies.
.P
One or more data
.I files
that contain geographic, posting, and control data.
If no files are specified,
or if a - argument is encountered,
.B points
reads from the standard input.
Files are processed in left to right order.
.P
The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the
.B \-c
run-line field or the data file(s).
Control data in the data files must be on lines with a # character
in column one.
A second # character on these lines causes the remainder of the
line to be ignore and, consequently, may be used for comments.
.P
There are two basic modes of
.I points
operation:
.I point
plotting, where a symbol is displayed at each
geographic coordinate; and
.I posting,
where one or more fields of
data from the data record are printed at the geographic point.
Consequently, several options require either
an s or c prefix to denote whether
the option applies to the respective point or posting control.
For example,
.B \-sf
selects point font and
.B \-sc
selects the posting font.
.TP
.BI \-c
When
.B \-c
occurs as a solitary option, the subsequent data posting fields are to
be plotted.
.TP
.BI \-sc " arg"
This option selects the point symbol to be employed.
If
.I arg
is a numeric value, then the symbol is selected by the numeric
value of the symbol, otherwise the ascii character.
.TP
.BI \-d " flon,flat"
.I Flon
and
.I flat
are the respective field control words of the longitude and
latitude data fields (data must be in DMS format).
Both field control words are of the form
.B [f][.[o][.l]]
where
.B f
is the field number,
.B o
is the number of characters to skip from the beginning of the
field, and
.B l
is the length of the field.
If 
.B l
is not specified or 0, then the remainder of the field is employed.
If
.B f
or
.B o
are omitted, then 1 and 0 are respective assumptions.
If this option is omitted, then a default of "-d 2,1" is assumed.
.TP
.BI \-f " ff1[,ff2,...,ffn]"
The list of field control words following this option defines the
data fields to be posted.
The format of
.I ff
is the same as for the
.B \-d
option.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]f " name"
.I Name
is the name of a graphic system font to be employed for the
point (s) or posting (c) operations.
.TP
.BI \-j " chr"
.I Chr
selects justification mode for posting data:
c for centered, l for left and r for right.
Default justification is left.
.TP
.BI \-cl " n"
Set the interline spacing (leading) to
.I n
/ 8 times the character size.
If not specified for multiple fields, the posting data will
overplot.
A typical value of 12 (1.5 times) usually works well.
.TP
.BI \-p " n"
.br
.I N
is the mechanical pen to be employed.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]q
Discontinue point (s) or posting (c) mode.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]r " ang"
.I Ang
is the number of counter clockwise degrees the posted data (c) or
point symbol (s) is to be rotated about the geographic point.
.TP
.BI \-s
When
.B \-s
occurs as a solitary option, point plotting is to commence at subsequent
data values.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]s " size"
.I Size
is the nominal size of the point (s) or posting (c)
characters in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-t "c"
The character
.I c,
immediately following 
.B \-t
delimits data fields on data records (default:
.B \-t\e^I
(tab)).
.TP
.BI \-cx " cm"
.I Cm
is the number of centimeters
along the x-axis the beginning of the posting
string is to be offset from the geographic coordinate location.
Note: offset is made prior to rotation.
.TP
.BI \-cy " cm"
Option similar to
.B \-cx
except that it is used for offset along the y-axis.
.TP
.BI \-z "c"
The character
.I c
immediately following
.B \-z
will replace the normal # character for indicating control line
and comment.
.SH FILES
 Map definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
 MAPGEN system documentation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
 Error monitoring only.
.SH BUGS
Too early to tell (probably).
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
