.\" @(#)ppoint.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH PPOINT 1 2/20/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
ppoint - create x-y point data overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B ppoint
[ -oi [args]]
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ppoint
is a graphic function in the
.I PLOTGEN
graphic series which provides for creating point and/or posting
overlays from x-y coordinate data file[s].
.P
The following run-line options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
.br
This option specifies the map overlay meta-graphic file.
.TP
.BI \-i
.br
If this option is specified a "preview" of the graphic file is
output to the controlling terminal.
It the
.B \-o
option is omitted, then
.B \-i
is implied.
.P
One or more data
.I files
that contain x-y, posting and control data.
If no files are specified,
or if a - argument is encountered,
.B ppoint
reads from the standard input.
Files are processed in left to right order.
.P
The initial control information in the input data stream
must be scaling options as defined in the
.I pltgen(5)
description.
.P
The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the data file[s]
and must be on lines with a # character in column one.
A second # character on these lines causes the remainder of the
line to be ignored and, consequently, may be used for comments.
.P
There are two basic modes of
.B ppoint's
operation: point
plotting where a symbol is displayed at each
x-y coordinate and
posting where one or more fields of
data from the data record are printed at the x-y point.
Consequently, several options require either
an s or c prefix to denote whether
the option applies to the respective point or posting control.
For example
.BI -s f
selects point font while
.BI -c f
selects the posting font.
.TP
.BI \-c
.br
When
.I \-c
occurs as a solitary option the subsequent data posting fields are to
be plotted.
.TP
.BI \-sc " arg"
.br
This option selects the point symbol to be employed.
If
.I arg
is a numeric value then it is the numeric selection of the symbol
otherwise the ascii value.
.TP
.BI \-d " fx,fy"
.br
.I Fx
and
.I fy
are the respective field control words of the x-axis and
y-axis data fields.
Both field control words are of the form
.I [f][.[o][.l]]
where
.I f
is the field number,
.I o
is the number of characters to skip from the beginning of the
field, and
.I l
is the length of the field.
If 
.I l
is not specified or 0, then the entire field is employed.
If
.I f
or
.I o
are omitted then 1 and 0 are respective assumptions.
If this option is omitted then a default of "-d 1,2" is assumed.
.TP
.BI \-f " ff1[,ff2,...,ffn]"
.br
The list of field control words following this option defines the
data fields to be posted.
The format of
.I ff
is the same as for the
.B -d
option.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]f " name"
.br
.I Name
is the name of a graphic system font to be employed for the
point (s) or posting (c) operations.
.TP
.BI \-j " chr"
.br
.I Chr
selects justification mode for posting data:
c for centered, l for left and r for right.
Default justification is left.
.TP
.BI \-cl " n"
.br
Set the interline spacing (leading) to
.I n
/ 8 times the character size.
If not specified for multiple fields, the posting data will
overplot.
A typical value of 12 (1.5 times) usually works well.
.TP
.BI \-p " n"
.br
.I N
is the mechanical pen to be employed.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]q
.br
Discontinue point (s) or posting (c) mode.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]r " ang"
.br
.I Ang
is the number of counter clockwise degrees the posted data (c) or
point symbol (s) is to be rotated about the x-y point.
.TP
.BI \-s
When
.I \-s
occurs as a solitary option then point plotting is to commence at subsequent
data values.
.TP
.BI \-[s|c]s " size"
.br
.I Size
is the nominal size of the point (s) or posting (c)
characters in centimeters.
.TP
.BI \-t " c"
.br
The character
.I c,
immediately following
.B t,
delimits data fields on data records (default:
.BI -t \et
(tab)).
.TP
.BI \-cx " cm"
.br
.I Cm
is the number of centimeters
along the x-axis the beginning of the posting
string is to be offset from the x-y coordinate location.
Note: offset is made prior to rotation.
.TP
.BI \-cy " cm"
.br
Option similar to
.I \-cx
except that for offset along the y-axis.
.TP
.BI \-z " chr"
.br
The character
.I chr
will replace the normal # character indicating control line
and comment.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following script demonstrates point plotting:
.RS 5
 
 ppoint -oi dest.ov def - data <<EOF
 # -sfsc - .3 6 -d 2,4 -s
 EOF
 
.RE
where the scaling definition data is in file
.I def,
the actual data
in file
.I data
and an overlay
.I dest.ov
is to be created.
.SH SEE ALSO
 pline(1), prev(1)
 Pltgen(5) system documentation.
 Graphics system documentation.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
 Error monitoring only.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
