.\" @(#)vector.1 - 1.1
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH VECTOR 1 6/21/89 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
vector \- create line data overlay
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B vector
[ \-oaci [args]]
[ \-m ] def_file
[ files ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Vector
is a graphic function in the MAPGEN/PLOTGEN
graphic series which provides for creating vector or line
metagraphic overlays from geographic or cartesian coordinate data file[s].
.PP
Most of the following options can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI "[ \-m ]" " def_file"
This option specifies the required plot scaling file which
may be either a map or cartesian definition file.
If the
.B \-m
is omitted,
.I def_file
must be the first file listed.
.TP
.BI \-o " file"
This option specifies a new overlay metagraphic file.
If the file already exists, it will be overwritten.
.TP
.BI \-a " file"
This option specifies appending the overlay metagraphic
to an existing overlay file.
If
.I file
does not exist, it will be created.
.TP
.BI \-i
If this option is specified, a plot of the graphic file is
output to the controlling terminal.
If the
.B \-o
or
.B \-a
options are omitted, then
.B \-i
is implied.
.TP
.BI \-c " string"
This options provides for run-line inclusion of graphic options
listed below.
If there is more than one option or imbedded blanks,
the field must be enclosed in quotes or apostrophies.
The contents of this option is processed before the data files.
.PP
One or more data
.I files
that contain geographic or x\-y data (depending upon
.I def_file
type), and control data.
If no files are specified,
or if a \- argument is encountered,
.B vector
reads from the standard input.
Files are processed in left to right order.
.PP
The following options provide for graphic control and may only appear
in the
.B \-c
run-line field or the data file[s].
Control data in the data files must be on lines with a # character
in column one.
A second # character on these lines causes the remainder of the
line to be ignored and, consequently, may be used for comments.
.PP
Vector or line drafting has three methods of display: solid lines,
dashed lines and symbol lines.
Symbol lines are similar to dashed lines except that the graphic
employed in lieu of the dash segment may be any character(s) from
the font selected.
The symbol line form may be combined with either the solid or
dashed line option.
The font selected by the
.B \-f
determines the character set used by the the symbol line generator.
.TP
.BI \-[L] " pen[,mask,size[,dist,ssize,str]]"
This option provides for controlling the method and character of lines.
Argument
.I pen
designates the mechanical pen to be employed in drafting and must
be specified with each usage.
The remaining arguments may be optionally specified but when omitted
the position must be indicated with appropriate comma (,) delimiters
(ie. \(CW# -B 0,,,1,.2,\e010 #\fR\(em \fImask\fR and \fIsize\fR unaltered).
.IP
.I Mask
and
.I size
control dash line drafting where
.I mask
is specification of the 16 bit dash pattern to be employed and
.I size
is the size of the bit element of the mask pattern in centimeters.
Note that the total length of the dash pattern is 16\(mu\fIsize\fR
centimeters.
If
.I mask
is \-1 then a solid line is drafted and
.I size
is ignored and
when
.I mask
is 0 line drafting is suspended
(0 is usually only employed with symbol line drafting).
.I Mask
is usually specified as a hexadecimal value
(ie. 0xCCCC for a small dash bit pattern of 1010101010101010)
.IP
Lines with symbol patterns may be created by using
the
.I dist, ssize
and
.I str
options where
.I dist
is the inter-symbol distance in centimeters,
.I ssize
is the size of the symbol in centimeters.
.IP
.I Str
is any string of one to 128 symbols selected from the selected character
font to be employed in a repeated manner when drafting symbol lines.
A special symbol (\e177) may be employed to denote an empty
point in the symbol sequence.
Any symbol (including the empty point symbol)
with the most significant bit (sign) set will cause 180\(de
rotation of the current and following
.I str
(if any) symbols.
At the start of each cycle through
.I str
the character rotation is set to 0\(de so that if a line is progressing
from left to right the symbol would appear right side up.
If a single symbol is to appear in a reverse manner then
\e200 should be added (i.e. a reverse rotation letter A would be \e301).
To create a sequence of symbols with
alternating rotation then two or more
symbols must be used with the sign set on some symbol other than
the first.
For example, \f(CW\-a A\e301\fR will cause the letter A to be
plotted with alternating rotation.
.IP
The cyclic operation though
.I str
can be inhibited by terminating
.I str
with the \e377 special character.
This permits this option to be employed for drafting curved annotation
based on the following line data.
With this feature the
drafting of the line is normally turned off
(ie. \f(CW# -L ,0,,.01,.3,Example\e Line\e377\fR).
.TP
.BI \-R n
This option (geographic coordinates only)
provides for the generation of rhumb lines
(lines of constant azimuth) when
.I n
is a positive value.
The larger the value of
.B n
the coarser the rhumb fit will be and the greater likelyhood of
visible straight line segments.
Generally a selection of
.B \-R 3
is considered and optimal value for publication work.
When
.I n
zero or absent normal lines directly connecting coordinates are employed.
When employed with non-rhumb lines in a single control-data file a
.B \-b
should separate line segments.
.TP
.BI \-b
This option specifies a break in the line.
Line drafting will be discontinued at the last point and restarted
at the next data point.
.TP
.BI \-d " x-coord,y-coord"
.I X-coord
and
.I y-coord
are the respective field control words of either the longitude and
latitude data fields (data must be in DMS format) or
the x\-y cartesian coordinates.
Both field control words are of the form
.B [f][.[o][.l]]
where
.B f
is the field number,
.B o
is the number of characters to skip from the beginning of the
field, and
.B l
is the length of the field.
If 
.B l
is not specified or 0, then the remainder of the field is employed.
If
.B f
or
.B o
are omitted then 1 and 0 are respective assumptions.
If this option is omitted then a default value of "\-d 2,1" is
assumed for geographic coordinates and "\-d 1,2" for x\-y data.
.TP
.BI \-f " name"
.I Name
is the name of a graphic system font to be employed for the
symbol line characters.
Names of fonts in the standard font library are preceeded by a \-.
If omitted, the graphic system default character font
is selected (\f(CW # -f -\fR).
.TP
.BI \-t "c"
The character
.I c,
immediately following
.B \-t,
delimits data fields on data records (default: "t\et" (tab)).
Use of special characters may require " or ' mark enclosure on the runline.
.TP
.BI \-z "c"
The character
.I c
immediately following
.B \-z
will replace the normal # character that indicate control line
and comment.
.TP
.BI \-x
The
.B \-x
option specifies that the following lines contain x\-y data in
centimeter board units which outline, in a counter-clockwise
manner, an area where vector plotting
is to be suppressed.
For less than two input coordinate values the operation is ignored
with a warning.
If two lines of data follow then this pair of coordinates
represents diagonally opposite corners of a rectangular region.
For more than two lines of coordinate pairs the region is considered
to be a polygonal outline.
If the last coordinate of a polygon set is not identical to the
first point, closure is forced by appending a copy of the first line.
The list of coordinates is terminated by any control line.
.IP
All of the data must be inside the maximum board size of the plot and
the region must have a non-zero area.
The maximum number of points defining a polygon region is currently
limited to 100.
.SH FILES
 Map definition file.
.SH SEE ALSO
 MAPGEN and PLOTGEN system documentation.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
