.TH i.in.erdas
.SH NAME
\fIi.in.erdas\fR \-Creates raster files from ERDAS files.
.br
.I "(GRASS Raster Program)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.in.erdas\fR
.br
\fBi.in.erdas help\fR
.br
\fBi.in.erdas\fR [\fB\-alms\fR] \fBinput=\fIname\fR \fBoutput=\fIname\fR
\fB[trailer=\fIname]\fR \fB[bands=\fIvalue[,value,...]]\fR
\fB[srow=\fIvalue]\fR \fB[scol=\fIvalue]\fR \fB[rows=\fIvalue]\fR
\fB[cols=\fIvalue]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program creates raster map files from ERDAS files.  It 
creates one raster file for each selected band, up to the signed 16-bit
limit at 32767.
GRASS color and category support files are created if an ERDAS trailer
file is specified.
.br
Only ERDAS version 7.4 or later files in 4-bit, 8-bit, or 16-bit formats
are supported. Either byte order is acceptable to the original format spec,
so byte swapping can be necessary on any platform. Automatic byte order
detection is the default, but can be disabled.
.br
GRASS raster files will be named \fIprefix.band\fR

Note:
.RS
Remember that it is necessary to run:
\fIr.support\fR: to create the histogram or change the color table.
\fIi.group\fR: to associate the individual raster files as an image group.
.RE
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.LP
Flags:
.IP \fI-a\fR
Disable Automatic byte-order swapping detection
.IP \fI-l\fR
List the ERDAS header only (no raster files created)
.IP \fI-s\fR
Use non-default byte order (platform-dependant)
.IP \fI-m\fR
Use map coordinates for coordinates

.LP
Parameters:
.IP \fIinput\fR
ERDAS input file name
.IP \fIoutput\fR
output prefix of the GRASS raster files to be created.
.IP \fItrailer\fR
ERDAS trailer input file name
.IP \fIbands\fR
Selected bands to extract. (defaults to all bands)
.IP \fIsrow\fR
Starting row. (defaults to first row in file)
.IP \fIscol\fR
Starting column. (defaults to first column in file)
.IP \fIrows\fR
Number of rows to extract. (defaults to all rows)
.IP \fIcols\fR
Number of columns to extract. (defaults to all columns)

.SH "SEE ALSO"
r.support, i.group

.SH NOTES
The byte order detection is new and under-tested. Use with some caution,
if only to make sure your files that worked before can still be imported.
.br
Files can now be imported with more than 7 bands. This feature was also
under-tested, and should be approached with all the normal caution required
for new code.

.SH AUTHOR
M.L. Holko, USDA, SCS, NHQ-CGIS
.br
Paul H. Fukuhara, USDA, SCS, NCG-GSS
.br
Current Maintainer: Angus Carr.