.TH i.texture
.SH NAME
\fIi.texture\fR \- calculate textural features on a raster file
.br
.I "(GRASS Image Processing Program)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.texture\fR
.br
\fBi.texture help\fR
.br
.\" this method of putting an equal sign does not work for the Sun
.\" tmac.an, but this is how other GRASS man pages have it, so I'll
.\" conform.
\fBi.texture rast\*=\fIname\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads a GRASS raster map as input.  Calculates textural features
based on spatial dependence matrices for north\-south, east\-west,
northwest, and southwest directions using a 3x3 neighborhood
(i.e., a distance of 1).  Writes to standard output.
Be sure to carefully set your resolution (using g.region) before
running this program, or else your computer could run out of memory.  
Also, make sure that your raster map has no more than 255 categories.
.LP
\fBParameter:\fR
.IP \fBrast\*=\fIname\fR 18
Raster map name.
.PP
Textural features include:
.IP
(1) Angular Second Moment,
.br
(2) Contrast,
.br
(3) Correlation,
.br
(4) Variance,          
.br
(5) Inverse Difference Moment,
.br
(6) Sum Average,
.br
(7) Sum Variance,
.br
(8) Sum Entropy,
.br
(9) Entropy,
.br
(10) Difference Variance,
.br
(11) Difference Entropy,
.br
(12, 13) Information Measures of Correlation, and
.br
(14) Maximal Correlation Coefficient.
.PP
Algorithm taken from:
.br
Haralick, R.M., K. Shanmugam, and I. Dinstein. 1973. Textural features
for image classification.  
.I IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, 
.I and Cybertinetics,
SMC-3(6):610-621.
.PP
The code was taken by permission from pgmtexture, part of PBMPLUS 
(Copyright 1991,
Jef Poskanser and Texas Agricultural Experiment Station, employer for
hire of James Darrell McCauley).
.SH BUGS
The program can run incredibly slow for large raster files 
(larger than 64 x 64) and command line options are limited.
.PP
The method for finding (14) the maximal correlation coefficient, which
requires finding the second largest eigenvalue of a matrix Q, does not
always converge. 
.PP 
It would be interesting to write raster files to map features for 
neighborhoods, with some sort of quantization to record category values.
This may be useful for image classification schemes, but this exercise is 
left to the reader (the changes would be fairly trivial).
.SH REFERENCES
.I IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, 
.I and Cybertinetics,
SMC-3(6):610-621.
.SH SEE ALSO
g.region(1), r.reclass(1)
.SH AUTHOR
James Darrell McCauley (mccauley@ecn.purdue.edu), Purdue University.
.\" Original copyright notice from pgmtexture.c:
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation.  This software is provided "as is" without express or
.\" implied warranty.
.\"
.\" THE TEXAS AGRICULTURAL EXPERIMENT STATION (TAES) AND THE TEXAS A&M
.\" UNIVERSITY SYSTEM (TAMUS) MAKE NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES
.\" (INCLUDING BY WAY OF EXAMPLE, MERCHANTABILITY) WITH RESPECT TO ANY
.\" ITEM, AND SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL
.\" OR CONSEQUENTAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE POSESSION OR USE OF
.\" ANY SUCH ITEM. LICENSEE AND/OR USER AGREES TO INDEMNIFY AND HOLD
.\" TAES AND TAMUS HARMLESS FROM ANY CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
.\" POSSESSION OF SUCH ITEMS.

