.TH PIXMAP 1 "Release 4" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
pixmap \- pixmap editor for X based on enhanced Xpm library from
Arnaud Le Hors - GROUPE BULL

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pixmap
[-options ...]
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIpixmap\fP program is a tool for creating or editing
rectangular images made up of colored pixels, i.e., pixmaps. Pixmaps
are intensively used in X to define window backgrounds, icon images, etc.
.PP
The \fIpixmap\fP program can have two different interfaces, a Athena
widgets version and a Motif widgets version.
.SH USAGE
\fIPixmap\fP displays grid in which each square represents a single pixel in
the picture being edited.  Squares can be set, cleared, or inverted
(this last operation will be detailed later) directly
with the buttons on the pointer and a menu of higher level operations such
as draw line and fill circle is provided to the side of the grid.
Another menu on the top of the window allows files operations (Load,
Save, ...), edit operations (Cut/Copy/Paste, attributes of pixmap
editing, ...) and colors operations (drawing color, attributes of
colors, ...). \fIPixmap\fP uses a Pixmap widget to represent the
pixmap image. 
.PP
Pixmaps are stored as a C string array variable suitable for including in 
applications, using the format defined by Arnaud Le Hors in his Xpm
library (refer to Xpm manual for format description). This format
allows pixmaps to be used indistinctly on monochrome, grey
scale or color displays.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fIPixmap\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 4
.B \-display/\-d \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies the name of the X server to use.
.TP 4
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fP
This option specifies the placement and size of the \fIpixmap\fP
program window on the screen.  See \fIX\fP for details.
.TP 4
.B \-help/\-h
This option asks for the usage description of \fIpixmap\fP.
.TP 4
.B \-size \fIWIDTHxHEIGHT\fP
This option specifies the size (width and height) in pixels of the
pixmap to be edited.
.TP 4
.B \-squares \fISIZE\fP
This option specifies the size in display points to use to represent
each pixel (a square of SIZE points).
.TP 4
.B +resize/\-resize
This option indicates that the Pixmap widget should react to
resize requests of window manager or not.
.TP 4
.B +grid/\-grid
This option indicates that the grid lines in the Pixmap widget
should be displayed or not. 
.TP 4
.B \-stippled
This option turns off stipple drawing of transparent pixels.
.TP 4
.B \-stipple \fIpixmap\fP
This option specifies the depth 1 pixmap to use to draw transparent pixels.
.TP 4
.B +axes/\-axes
This option indicates that the axes in the Pixmap widget should be
displayed or not.
.TP 4
.B +proportional/\-proportional
This option indicates that the pixels in the Pixmap widget should
be drawn proportional, i.e. in squares,  or not.
.TP 4
.B \-hl \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use for highlighting purposes.
\fIcolor\fP can be any name accepted by the XParseColor(3X11) function.
.TP 4
.B \-fr \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use draw grid and axes in Pixmap widget.
\fIcolor\fP can be any name accepted by the XParseColor(3X11) function.
.TP 4
.B \-tr \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color to use to represent transparent pixels.
\fIcolor\fP can be any name accepted by the XParseColor(3X11) function.
.TP 4
.B \-fn/\-font \fIfontname\fP
This option specifies the font to be used in \fIpixmap\fP.
.TP 4
.B \-filename/\-f/\-in \fIfilename\fP
This option specifies the name of the file from which the pixmap to be
edited should be loaded.
.SH PIXELS EDITING WITH MOUSE
Pixels may be set, cleared, or inverted by pointing to them and
clicking one of the buttons indicated below.  Multiple pixels can be changed 
at once by holding the button down and dragging the cursor across them.  Set
pixels are filled with the current color; cleared pixels are filled
with white; and inverted pixels are either set if they were
originally cleared or cleared otherwise.
.RS .5in
.TP 4
.I "Button 1"
.br
This button (usually leftmost on the pointer) is used to set one or 
more pixels.
.TP 4
.I "Button 2"
.br
This button (usually in the middle) is used to invert one or more pixels.
.TP 4
.I "Button 3"
.br
This button (usually on the right) is used to clear one or more pixels.
.TP 4
.I "Button 4"
.br
This button is used to clear one or more pixels.
.TP 4
.I "Button 5"
.br
This button is used to clear one or more pixels.
.RE

Every button operation can be changed by means of resources in 
the \.Xdefaults  file or application defaults file (/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/Pixmap).
.SH MENU COMMANDS
To make defining shapes easier, \fIpixmap\fP provides several commands for
drawing and manipulating the pixmap edited, and commands for file management.
.PP
Commands are layed in a vertical bar at the left of the Pixmap widget
and in a menu bar at the top of the window. Most of the drawing
commands are located in the left bar, where as file management and
other general commands are located in the top menu bar.
.PP
In the left bar, some commands are represented by icons. They are,
from left to right and up to down, \fIFlip horizontally\fP, \fIUp\fP,
\fIFlip vertically\fP, \fILeft\fP, \fIFold\fP, \fIRight\fP, \fIRotate
right\fP (counterclock), \fIDown\fP, \fIRotate left\fP (clockwise).
.PP
Some commands are also available directly through the keyboard when
the mouse cursor is located on the Pixmap widget. They will be
mentionned as an accelerator in the following description. 
.PP
LEFT BAR COMMANDS
.RS .5in
.TP 4
.I Clear
This command is used to clear all of the pixels in the pixmap as if Button 3 
had been dragged through every pixel in the pixmap. 
The accelerator of this command is [Shift]<Key>c.
.TP 4
.I Set
This command is used to set all of the pixels in the pixmap to the
current color, as if Button 1 had been dragged through every pixel in
the pixmap. 
The accelerator of this command is [Shift]<Key>s.
.TP 4
.I Redraw
This command is used to redisplay the pixmap. 
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>l.
.TP 4
.I Copy
This command is used to copy a region of the pixmap from one location
to another. When this command is invoked, the region to copy should
 be specified by pressing Button 1, dragging the mouse and releasing
Button 1. The region can now be copied by pressing Button 1 with the
cursor located on the region selected, dragging the mouse and
releasing it where the upper left corner of the region should be copied. 
If a region was already selected with a Mark command, only the second
phase of the copy is necessary.
The accelerator of this command is available when a region has already
been selected and is Ctrl<Btn2Down> to drag the region and
Ctrl<Btn2Up> to draw it to point. This accelerated command is
identical to the Paste command available through the \fIEdit\fP menu
of the top menu bar.
.TP 4
.I Move
This command is used to move a region of the pixmap from one location
to another. When this command is invoked, the region to move should be
specified by pressing Button 1, dragging the mouse and releasing
Button 1. The region can now be moved by pressing Button 1 with the
cursor located on the region selected, dragging the mouse and
releasing it where the upper left corner of the region should be
moved. The initial region is cleared.
If a region was already selected with a Mark command, only the second
phase of the move is necessary.
.TP 4
.I Mark
This command is used to mark a region to move or copy it later
(commands \fIMove\fP and \fICopy\fP above), or to put it in the
Cut&Paste buffer (commands \fICut\fP and \fICopy\fP of the \fIEdit\fP
menu of the top menu bar). When this command is invoked, the region
should  be specified by pressing Button 1, dragging the mouse and
releasing Button 1. Once marked, the region is highlighted.
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Btn1Down> to initiate the
selection and Ctrl<Btn1Up> to finish it.
.TP 4
.I Unmark
This command is used to unmark a region previously marked. It will
unhighlight the region.
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Btn3Down>.
.TP 4
.I Flip horizontally
This command is used to flip horizontally the whole pixmap or the
marked region. This means mirroring horizontally the pixmap image. The
mirror is placed at the middle of the pixmap height.
The accelerator of this command is [Shift|Ctrl]<Key>h.
.TP 4
.I Up
This command is used to move the whole pixmap or the marked region up.
Pixels at the top of the pixmap are pushed back at the bottom of the
new pixmap. 
The accelerator of this command is Any<Key>Up (not available in Motif version).
.TP 4
.I Flip vertically
This command is used to flip vertically the whole pixmap or the marked
region. This means mirroring vertically the pixmap image. The mirror
is placed at the middle of the pixmap width.
The accelerator of this command is Any<Key>v.
.TP 4
.I Left
This command is used to move the whole pixmap or the marked region
left. Pixels at the left of the pixmap are pushed back at the right of
the new pixmap. 
The accelerator of this command is Any<Key>Left (not available in
Motif version).
.TP 4
.I Fold
This command is used to "Fold" the pixmap. This
means splitting the pixmap image in four squares (top left, top right,
bottom left and bottom right) and inverting them (top becomes bottom,
left becomes right, and so on). "Folding" twice a pixmap does no
change. 
The accelerator of this command is [Shift|Ctrl]<Key>f.
.TP 4
.I Right
This command is used to move the whole pixmap or the marked region
right. Pixels at the right of the pixmap are pushed back at the left
of the new pixmap. 
The accelerator of this command is Any<Key>Right (not available in
Motif version).
.TP 4
.I Rotate right
This command is used to rotate the pixmap image or the marked region
right (clockwise) of 90 degrees. Four \fIRotate right\fP operations does
no change. 
The accelerator of this command is [Shift|Ctrl]<Key>r.
.TP 4
.I Down
This command is used to move the whole pixmap or the marked region
down. Pixels at the bottom of the pixmap are pushed back at the top of
the new pixmap. 
The accelerator of this command is Any<Key>Down (not available in
Motif version).
.TP 4
.I Rotate left
This command is used to rotate the pixmap image or the marked region
left (counterclock) of 90 degrees. Four \fIRotate left\fP operations
does no change. 
The accelerator of this command is [Shift]<Key>l.
.TP 4
.I Point
This command is used to set, invert or clear a pixel to the current
color. It can be considered as a mode. After selecting it, pixels are
set, inverted or cleared depending on the button used (see Pixels
Editing with the Mouse). If the mouse button remains pressed while
dragging the mouse, more than one pixel can be affected.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Curve
This command is used to draw curved lines (set, cleared or inverted).
The curve is drawn while dragging the mouse. This command can be
considered as a mode. Quite the same affect can be obtained by
dragging the mouse in point mode, the main difference resides in the
fact that pixels will be drawn contiguously.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Line
This command is used to draw lines between two points (set, cleared or
inverted). The lines are first drawn highlighted while mouse button
remains pressed. This command can be considered as a mode.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Rectangle
This command is used to draw rectangles between two points defining
the two opposite corners of the rectangle (set, cleared or
inverted). The rectangles are first drawn highlighted while mouse button
remains pressed. This command can be considered as a mode.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Filled Rectangle
This command is used to draw filled rectangles between two points defining
the two opposite corners of the rectangle (set, cleared or inverted).
The rectangles outlines are first drawn highlighted while mouse button 
remains pressed. This command can be considered as a mode.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Circle
This command will set, invert or clear the pixels on a circle
specified by a center and a point on the curve. Small circles may not
look very round because of the size of the pixmap and the limits of
having to work with discrete pixels. This command can be considered as
a mode.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Filled Circle
This command will set, invert or clear all of the pixels in a circle
specified by a center and a point on the curve. All pixels side and
including the circle are set. This command can be considered as a
mode.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Flood Fill
This command will set all clear pixels in an enclosed shape. The
enclosed shape is determined by all the pixels whose color is
different from the color of the pixel on which the user has clicked.
If the shape is not closed, the entire pixmap will be filled. This
command can be considered as a mode.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Set Hot Spot
This command allows the specification of a Hot Spot. The Hot Spot is
selected by clicking the \fISet\fP mouse button. Clicking \fIInvert\fP
will invert the Hot Spot, set or reset it depending on its previous
state. Hot spot is useful for cursor pixmaps and are used to reference
the sensible part of the pixmap.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Clear Hot Spot
This command clears the current Hot Spot.
This command has no accelerator.
.TP 4
.I Undo
This command is used to undo the last operation. Only one operation
can be undone.
The accelerator of this command is Any<Key>u.
.PP 
.RE
TOP MENU COMMANDS
.RS .5in
.TP 4
.I Info
This command pops up a info window.
.PP
.RE
\fIFile\fP MENU
.RS .5in
.TP 4
.I Load...
This command is used to load a pixmap file in the pixmap editor. A
dialog window is poped up in which a filename has to be provided. The 
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the
dialog window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>l.
.TP 4
.I Insert...
This command is used to load a pixmap in the Cut&Paste buffer of the
pixmap editor. The contents of the pixmap file can then be pasted on
the current pixmap. A dialog window is poped up in which a filename
has to be provided. The operation can be interrupted with the
\fICancel\fP button of the dialog window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>i.
.TP 4
.I Save
This command is used to save the current pixmap in the current file
edited. By default, and until otherwise changed by a \fIFilename...\fP,
\fILoad...\fP or \fISave As...\fP operation, or by specifying the filename
on the command line, the filename is \fIscratch\fP. The \fIFilename...\fP
command can be used to change this default filename.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>s.
.TP 4
.I Save As...
This command is usedc to save the current pixmap in a particular file
which name has to be provided in the dialog window which pops up. The
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the dialog
window. 
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>a.
.TP 4
.I Resize...
This command is used to resize the current pixmap to the width and
height specified in the dialog window which pops up. The syntax is
WIDTHxHEIGHT. This operation is different from the \fIRescale...\fP one
in the way that it just add or remove pixels to the current pixmap
without trying to fit the space correctly with the pixmap image. The
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the dialog
window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>r.
.TP 4 
.I Rescale...
This command is used to rescale the current pixmap image in order to
make it fit a larger or smaller space. The new width and height have
to be specified in the dialog window which pops up with the syntax
WIDTHxHEIGHT. The operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP
button of the dialog window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>e.
.TP 4
.I Filename...
This command is used to change the current filename, i.e., the name of
the file in which the pixmap will be saved with a \fISave\fP operation.
The new filename has to be provided in the dialog window which pops
up. The operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the
dialog window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>f.
.TP 4
.I Hints comment...
This command pops up a dialog window in which the user can specify the
hints section comment of the pixmap file. The operation can be
interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the dialog window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>h.
.TP 4
.I Colors comment...
This command pops up a dialog window in which the user can specify the
colors section comment of the pixmap file. The operation can be
interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the dialog window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>c.
.TP 4
.I Pixels comment...
This command pops up a dialog window in which the user can specify the
pixels section comment of the pixmap file. The operation can be
interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the dialog window.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>p.
.TP 4
.I Quit
This command causes \fIpixmap\fP to display a dialog box asking whether or not
it should save the pixmap (if it has changed) and then exit.  Answering 
\fIyes\fP is the same as invoking \fISave\fP; \fIno\fP causes
\fIpixmap\fP to simply exit; and \fIcancel\fP will abort the \fIQuit\fP
command so that more changes may be made.
The accelerator of this command is Alt<Key>q.
.PP
.RE
\fIEdit\fP MENU
.RS .5in
.TP 4
.I Image
This command pops up a window in which the real size pixmap is shown.
This window can be closed by clicking the mouse in it or by invoking
\fIImage\fP once again. When the window is poped up, an \fIX\fP mark is
displayed in the menu at the left of the \fIImage\fP label.
The accelerator of this command is <Key>i.
.TP 4
.I Add color...
This command is used to add a new color in the \fIColor\fP menu. The
color name is specified in the dialog window which pops up either by a
real color name found in rgb\.txt file or by a string like
\fI#rrggbb\fP where \fIrr\fP, \fIgg\fP and \fIbb\fP represent the red,
green and blue components of the color in hexadecimal format. The
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the
dialog window. 
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>a.
.TP 4
.I Symbolic name...
This command is used to set the symbolic name of the current color.
The symbolic name is entered in the dialog window which pops up. The
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the
dialog window. 
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>s.
.TP 4
.I Monochrome name...
This command is used to set the monochrome name of the current color,
i.e., the name of the color to use on monochrome displays. The
monochrome name is entered in the dialog window which pops up. The 
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the
dialog window. 
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>m.
.TP 4
.I Grey scale 4 name...
This command is used to set the grey scale 4 name of the current
color, i.e., the name of the color to use on grey scale 4 displays.
The grey scale 4 name is entered in the dialog window which pops up. The
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the
dialog window. 
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>4.
.TP 4
.I Grey scale name...
This command is used to set the grey scale name of the current color,
i.e., the name of the color to use on grey scale (with more then 4
levels) displays. The grey scale name is entered in the dialog window
which pops up. The operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP
button of the dialog window. 
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>g.
.TP 4
.I Color name...
This command is used to set the color name of the current color. This
change will be considered when saving the pixmap but to remain
visible, it affects the label of the menu item of the color. This is
useful to directly change a specific color for another one or to allow
multiple symbols to represent the same color (the color can be the
same on color display but change on grey scale or monochrome ones).
The  color name is entered in the dialog window which pops up. The
operation can be interrupted with the \fICancel\fP button of the
dialog window. The \fINone\fP (not case sensitive) name is used to
change the pixel representing the transparent color. It is impossible
to change a color name to \fINone\fP if there's already a color with
this name. This is the only difference between this color and other
ones.
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>n.
.TP 4
.I Grid
This command toggles the display of the grid. When the grid is
displayed, an \fIX\fP mark is added at the left of the \fIGrid\fP
label.
The accelerator of this command is <Key>g.
.TP 4
.I Axes
This command toggles the display of axes. When axes are
displayed, an \fIX\fP mark is added at the left of the \fIAxes\fP
label.
The accelerator of this command is <Key>a.
.TP 4
.I Proportional
This command toggles the display in proportional mode of the pixmap.
Proportional mode means that the Pixmap widget won't try to fit all
the available space within the interface and will rather display each
pixel in a square, probably leaving some space around the pixmap
widget. When the proportional mode is active, an \fIX\fP mark is added
at the left of the \fIProportional\fP label. 
The accelerator of this command is <Key>p.
.TP 4
.I Zoom
This command is used to zoom some pixels of the current pixmap. The
zooming region has to be selected by the use as a rectangle region
just as if he was marking a region (see \fIMark\fP command). The
operation can be interrupted by invoking any other command. When a
region is zoomed, an \fIX\fP mark is added at the left of the
\fIZoom\fP label. Invoking once again the \fIZoom\fP command zooms
out.
The accelerator of this command is <Key>z.
.TP 4
.I Cut
When a region is marked, this operation is active. It is used to cut
the contents of the region to put it in the Cut&Paste buffer. The
\fIPaste\fP command now becomes active and the marked region is
unmarked. The pixels in the marked region are cleared. This command
acts as the \fIMove\fP one when a region is already marked.
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>c.
.TP 4
.I Copy
When a region is marked, this operation is active. It is used to copy
the contents of the region in the Cut&Paste buffer. The \fIPaste\fP
command now becomes active and the marked region is unmarked. This
command acts as the \fICopy\fP command of the left border when a
region is already marked.
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl<Key>x.
.TP 4
.I Paste
When a region has been cut or copied in the Cut&Paste buffer, this
command is active and can be used to paste the contents of the
Cut&Paste buffer where the mouse button is clicked. The paste
operation takes care of the button used to specify the point where to
paste the buffer. The button can remain pressed to move the buffer
around and then be released to paste the buffer at the current
location.
A \fICopy\fP and \fIPaste\fP operation can be accelerated by
Ctrl<Btn2Down> to intiate the operation and Ctrl<Btn2Up> to finish the
operation, i.e., paste the buffer. 
The accelerator of this command is Ctrl(Key>p.
.PP
.RE
\fIColor\fP MENU
.RS .5in
.TP 4
.I any color item
Any item of the \fIColor\fP menu can be used to set the current color
to the one choosed. The color selected will be used to set pixels in
drawing commands.
This command can be accelerated by usiong Shift<BtnDown> on a pixel
which color should be used. This accelerator is very useful when
modicifying small parts of a pixmap locally.
.RE
In addition the Motif version defines the status label as two active
buttons which operate as \fIFilename...\fP and \fIResize...\fP commands.

.SH "FILE FORMAT"
The \fISave\fP or \fISave As...\fP commands store pixmaps using the
format defined by Arnaud Le Hors in his Xpm library. Each pixmap is a
C string array variable that can be included and used within
programs, or referred to by X Toolkit pixmap resources (assuming that
a String to Pixmap converter has been registered on the server). Here
is an example of a pixmap file:
.sp
.nf
              /* XPM */
              static char * plaid[] = {
              /* plaid pixmap 
               * width height ncolors chars_per_pixel */
              "22 22 4 2 ",
              /* colors 
               */
              "   c red         m white  s light_color ",
              "Y  c yellow      m black  s lines_in_mix ",
              "+  c yellow      m white  s lines_in_dark ",
              "x                m black  s dark_color ",
              /* pixels */
              "x   x   x x x   x   x x x x x x + x x x x x ", 
              "  x   x   x   x   x   x x x x x x x x x x x ", 
              "x   x   x x x   x   x x x x x x + x x x x x ", 
              "  x   x   x   x   x   x x x x x x x x x x x ", 
              "x   x   x x x   x   x x x x x x + x x x x x ", 
              "Y Y Y Y Y x Y Y Y Y Y + x + x + x + x + x + ", 
              "x   x   x x x   x   x x x x x x + x x x x x ", 
              "  x   x   x   x   x   x x x x x x x x x x x ", 
              "x   x   x x x   x   x x x x x x + x x x x x ", 
              "  x   x   x   x   x   x x x x x x x x x x x ", 
              "x   x   x x x   x   x x x x x x + x x x x x ", 
              "          x           x   x   x Y x   x   x ", 
              "          x             x   x   Y   x   x   ",
              "          x           x   x   x Y x   x   x ", 
              "          x             x   x   Y   x   x   ", 
              "          x           x   x   x Y x   x   x ", 
              "x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x x ", 
              "          x           x   x   x Y x   x   x ", 
              "          x             x   x   Y   x   x   ", 
              "          x           x   x   x Y x   x   x ", 
              "          x             x   x   Y   x   x   ", 
              "          x           x   x   x Y x   x   x "
              } ;

.fi
.sp
The \fBplaid\fP name used to reference the pixmap variable is
constructed from the name of the file in which is saved the pixmap.
Any directories are stripped off the front of the name 
and any suffix beginning with a period is stripped off the end.  
.PP
The pixmap variable is a string array in which the first string of the
array contains the width, height, number of colors and number of
characters per pixel.
.PP
The following strings represent the color descriptions, one string per
color. A color description can be composed of one or more characters
that represent a pixel, and color display name preceded by the `c'
character, and/or a symbolic name preceded by the `s' character,
and/or a monochrome display name preceded by the `m' character, and or
a grey scale 4 levels display name preceded by the string `g4' ,
and/or a grey scale display name preceded by the aharacter `g',
specified in any order.
.PP
Following color description strings, each string represent a line of
the pixmap, composed of symbolic characters assigned to colors.
.PP
.SH USING PIXMAPS IN PROGRAMS
The format of pixmap files is designed to make pixmaps easy to
use within X programs, whatever your display is.  The following code
could be used to create a pixmap to use as a window background, using
the enhanced Xpm library from Groupe Bull and assuming that the pixmap
was stored in a file name \fIplaid.xpm\fP:
.sp
.nf
        #include "plaid.xpm"

        Pixmap pixmap;
    
        XCreatePixmapFromData (display, drawable, filename, &pixmap, 
		               &pixmap_mask, &attributes);
.sp
.fi
.PP
Additional routines are available for reading in \fIpixmap\fP files and 
returning the data in the file in Pixmaps.
.SH WIDGET HIERARCHY
.PP
The hierarchy of the pixmap editor is discribed here in order to
configure the editor by means of X resources in a \.Xdefaults file.
The first widget class is the Athena version one, while the second
one, seperated by a | character, is the Motif version one.
.sp
.nf
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i 2.0i 2.5i 3.0i 4.0i 5.0i 6.0i 7.0i 8.0i
Pixmap 							pixmap
	Paned|RowColumn 				parent
		Form|RowColumn 			formy
			Command|CascadeButtonGadget	infoButton
			MenuButton|CascadeButtonGadget	fileButton
			SimpleMenu|RowColumn		fileMenu
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	load
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	insert
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	save
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	saveAs
				SmeLine|SeparatorGadget	line
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	resize
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	rescale
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	filename
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	hintsCmt
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	colorsCmt
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	pixelsCmt
				SmeLine|SeparatorGadget	line
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	quit
			MenuButton|CascadeButtonGadget	editButton
			SimpleMenu|RowColumn 		editMenu
				SmeBSB|ToggleButtonGadget	image
				SmeLine|SeparatorGadget	line
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	addColor
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	symbolicName
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	monochromeName
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	g4Name
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	gName
				SmeLine|SeparatorGadget	line
				SmeBSB|ToggleButtonGadget	grid
				SmeBSB|ToggleButtonGadget	axes
				SmeBSB|ToggleButtonGadget	proportional
				SmeBSB|ToggleButtonGadget	zoom
				SmeLine|SeparatorGadget	line
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	cut
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	copy
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget	paste
			MenuButton|CascadeButtonGadget	fgButton
			SimpleMenu|RowColumn 		fgMenu
				SmeBSB|PushButtonGadget 	<color_name>
					.
					.
					.
			Label|CascadeButtonGadget 	status
			|CascadeButtonGadget		statusb
		Paned|Form 				pane
			Form|RowColumn 		form
				Command|PushButtonGadget	clear
				Command|PushButtonGadget	set
				Command|PushButtonGadget	redraw
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	copy
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	move
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	mark
				Command|PushButtonGadget	unmark
				|RowColumn		formh
					Command|PushButtonGadget	flipHoriz
					Command|PushButtonGadget	up
					Command|PushButtonGadget	flipVert
				|RowColumn		formh
					Command|PushButtonGadget	left
					Command|PushButtonGadget	fold
					Command|PushButtonGadget	right
				|RowColumn		formh
					Command|PushButtonGadget	rotateLeft
					Command|PushButtonGadget	down
					Command|PushButtonGadget	rotateRight
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	point
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	line
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	rectangle
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	filledRectangle
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	circle
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	filledCircle
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	floodFill
				Toggle|ToggleButtonGadget	setHotSpot
				Command|PushButtonGadget	clearHotSpot
				Command|PushButtonGadget	undo
			Pixmap|Pixmap 			pixmap
	TransientShell|TransientShell 		image
		Label|Label 				label
	PopupShell|SelectionBox 			info
		Dialog| 					dialog
			Label|				label
			Text|				value
			Command|				Okay
	PopupShell|SelectionBox 			input
		Dialog| 					dialog
			Label|				label
			Text|				value
			Command|				Okay
			Command|				Cancel
	PopupShell|SelectionBox 			file
		Dialog| 					dialog
			Label|				label
			Text|				value
			Command|				Okay
			Command|				Cancel
	PopupShell|SelectionBox 			error
		Dialog| 					dialog
			Label|				label
			Command|				Abort
			Command|				Retry
	PopupShell|SelectionBox 			qsave
		Dialog| 					dialog
			Labe|l				label
			Text|				value
			Command|				Yes
			Command|				No
			Command|				Cancel
.fi
.PP
Lines where only appears one or the other type of a widget (like
Dialog| or |CascadeButtonGadget) mean that the widget doesn't exist
in one or the other version. In the case of dialogs in the Motif
version, the widgets are created by means of convenient routines which
assign the name of the widget depending on the name of the dialog. By
the way, we can't provide with a list of types and names for the
substructure of dialog widgets in the Motif version. However, these
shouldn't be often modified.
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
In addition to the standard Athena or Motif widgets resources, \fIpixmap\fP
uses the following resources for the Pixmap widget (named pixmap):
.TP 4
.B Cursor
The cursor to use within the Pixmap widget.
.PP
.TP 4
.B Foreground
The initial foreground color for drawing.
.TP 4
.B Highlight
The highlighting color.
.TP 4
.B Framing
The framing color, used to draw grid and axes.
.TP 4
.B Transparent
The color representing transparent pixels.
.TP 4
.B Proportional
Toggles initial proportional display mode.
.TP 4
.B Grid
Toggles initial grid display.
.TP 4
.B GridTolerance
Determines when to display grid according to SquareSize.
.TP 4
.B Stippled
Suppress stipple drawing of transparent pixels.
.TP 4
.B Stipple
Depth 1 pixmap to use to draw transparent pixels stippled.
.TP 4
.B Axes
Toggles axes display.
.TP 4
.B Resize
Toggles Pixmap widget resize when requesting by window manager.
.TP 4
.B Distance
The margin around Pixmap widget.
.TP 4
.B SquareSize
The size in screen points used to display each pixmap pixels. 
.TP 4
.B PixmapWidth
The initial width of the pixmap.
.TP 4
.B PixmapHeight
The initial height of the pixmap.
.TP 4
.B Button1Action
The action associated to mouse button 1 (between Set, Invert and Clear).
.TP 4
.B Button2Action
The action associated to mouse button 2 (between Set, Invert and Clear).
.TP 4
.B Button3Action
The action associated to mouse button 3 (between Set, Invert and Clear).
.TP 4
.B Button4Action
The action associated to mouse button 4 (between Set, Invert and Clear).
.TP 4
.B Button5Action
The action associated to mouse button 5 (between Set, Invert and
Clear).
.TP 4
.B Filename
The initial file to load.
.TP 4
.B AddColorNtfyProc
The procedure to call when reading a pixmap file to notify color
loading. It is strongly advised not to change this resource.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), \fIXpm library manual\fP,  \fIXlib - C Language X Interface\fP
(particularly the section on \fIManipulating Pixmaps\fP)
.SH BUGS
.PP
If you move the pointer too fast while holding a pointer button down,
some pixels may be missed.  This is caused by limitations in how
frequently the X server can sample the pointer location.
.PP
Loading a pixmap file where the same color is used more than once with
different symbols and descriptions, and wrinting it will lost
information concerning the color used more than once. The pixmap file
plaid given as an example in this man won't be saved that way by
\fIpixmap\fP.
.PP
Accelerators to menu operations don't seem to work with Athena version.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Lionel Mallet.
.SH AUTHOR
\fIpixmap\fP by Lionel Mallet - Simulog.

