.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/pal2rgb.1,v 1.4 90/11/25 11:15:44 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH PAL2RGB 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
pal2rgb \- convert a ``palette color''
.SM TIFF
image to a ``full color'' image
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pal2rgb
[
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-contig
] [
.B \-separate
] [
.B \-8bit
] [
.B \-16bit
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I "from-file to-file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Pal2rgb
converts a ``palette color''
.SM TIFF
image to a ``full color'' image by
applying the colormap of the palette image to each sample
to generate a full color
.SM RGB
image.
By default, 
.I pal2rgb
inspects the colormap values and assumes either 16-bit
or 8-bit values according to the maximum value.
That is, if no colormap entry greater than 255 is found,
.I pal2rgb
assumes the colormap has only 8-bit values; otherwise
it assumes 16-bit values (as required by the
.SM TIFF
specification).
To force the colormap to be treated as having 8-bit or
16-bit values, the
.B \-8bit
or
.B \-16bit
flag may be specified, respectively.
.PP
The output image can be compressed with one of the
compression algorithms supported by 
.IR libtiff :
.B \-packbits
for Macintosh Packbits,
.B \-lzw
for Lempel-Ziv & Welch,
.B \-none
for no compression.
If no compression-related option is specified, the input
file's compression algorithm is used.
.PP
As for
.IR tiffcp (1),
the 
.SM TIFF
directory information of the input image is copied through
to the output image. 
The
.BR \-contig ,
.BR \-separate ,
and
.B \-rowsperstrip
options may be used to control the data organization of
the output image.
.SH BUGS
Only 8-bit images are handled.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
