.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffcp.1,v 1.8 90/11/25 11:12:59 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFFCP 1 "November 24, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffcp \- copy a
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffcp
[
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-g3
] [
.B \-g4
] [
.B \-contig
] [
.B \-separate
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
] [
.B \-2d
] [
.B \-fill
] [
.B \-predictor
.I n
]
.I "from-file to-file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffcp
copies a file created according
to the Tag Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
Because the output file may be compressed using a different
algorithm than the input file,
.I tiffcp
is most often used to convert between different compression
schemes.
.PP
By default, 
.I tiffcp
will copy all known tags in a
.SM TIFF
directory of the input
file to the associated directory in the output file.
The
.BR \-none ,
.BR \-packbits ,
.BR \-lzw ,
.BR \-g3 ,
and
.BR \-g4 ,
options are used to override the value of the
Compression and thereby define
the compression scheme to use in creating the output file.
The
.SM CCITT
Group 3 and Group 4 compression algorithms can only
be used with bilevel data.
The
.B \-2d
and
.B \-fill
options are meaningful only with Group 3 compression:
.B \-2d
requests 2-dimensional encoding, while
.B \-fill
requests that each encoded scanline be
zero-filled to a byte boundary.
The
.B \-predictor
option is only meaninful with 
.SM LZW
compression: a predictor value of 2 causes
each scanline of the output image to undergo horizontal
differencing before it is encoded; a value
of 1 forces each scanline to be encoded without
differencing.
.PP
By default,
.I tiffcp
will create a new file with the same planar configuration as
the original.
The
.B \-contig
and
.B \-separate
options can be used to covert between different planar
configurations if the original file has one 8-bit
sample per pixel.
.PP
The
.B \-rowsperstrip
option can be used to set the number of rows (scanlines)
in each strip of data in the output file.
By default, the output file has the number of rows per strip
set to a value that will ensure each strip is no more than 8 kilobytes.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcmp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
