.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffcmp.1,v 1.10 90/11/25 16:43:57 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFFCMP 1 "November 24, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffcmp \- compare two
.SM TIFF
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffcmp
[
.B \-l
] [
.B \-t
]
.I "file1 file2"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffcmp
compares the tags and data in two files created according
to the Tagged Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
The schemes used for compressing data in each file
are immaterial when data are compared\-data are compared on
a scanline-by-scanline basis after decompression.
Most directory tags are checked; notable exceptions are:
.IR GrayResponseCurve ,
.IR ColorResponseCurve ,
and
.IR ColorMap
tags.
Data will not be compared if any of the
.IR BitsPerSample ,
.IR SamplesPerPixel ,
or
.I ImageWidth
values are not equal.
By default,
.I tiffcmp
will terminate if it encounters any difference.
If the
.B \-t
option is specified, any differences in directory tags
will be ignored.
If the
.B \-l
option is specified, each data byte that differs
will be shown.
.SH BUGS
Tags that are not recognized by the library are not
compared; they may also generate spurious diagnostics.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
