.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffgt.1,v 1.6 90/11/25 11:15:58 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFFGT 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffgt \- display an image stored in a
.SM TIFF
file (Silicon Graphics version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffgt
[
.B \-d
.I dirnum
] [
.B \-f
]
.I name
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffgt
displays an image stored in a file with the
Tag Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
The image is placed in a fixed size window that the
user must position on the display.
If the display has fewer than 24 bitplanes, then
.SM RGB
color values are mapped to the closest values that exist in
the colormap (this work is done by the
.I rgbi
routine found in the graphics utility library
.BR \-lgutil .)
By default,
the first image in the file is displayed;
to display an alternate image, specify the directory
number with the
.B \-d
option; directories are numbered starting at zero.
Normally
.I tiffgt
runs as a background process; the
.B \-f
option forces it to run as a foreground process.
The
.B \-d
option sets the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to
.IR dirnum .
.PP
.I Tiffgt
correctly handles files with any of the following characteristics:
.sp .5
.ta \w'\fIPhotometricInterpretation\fP  'u
.nf
BitsPerSample	1, 2, 4, 8, 16
SamplesPerPixel	1, 3, 4 (the 4th sample is ignored)
PhotometricInterpretation	0 (min-is-white), 1 (min-is-black), 2 (RGB), 3 (palette)
PlanarConfiguration	1 (contiguous), 2 (separate)
Orientation	1 (top-left), 4 (bottom-left)
.fi
.sp .5
Data may be compressed with any of the compression algorithms supported
by the 
.IR libtiff (3)
library.
If data are organized in separate planes (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2),
then the
.I RowsPerStrip
must be one.
.PP
For palette images (\c
.IR PhotomatricInterpretation =3),
.I tiffgt
inspects the colormap values and assumes either 16-bit
or 8-bit values according to the maximum value.
That is, if no colormap entry greater than 255 is found,
.I tiffgt
assumes the colormap has only 8-bit values; otherwise
it assumes 16-bit values.
This inspection is done to handle old images written by
previous (incorrect) versions of
.IR libtiff .
.PP
If a file can be read with
.IR tiffinfo (1),
but can not be displayed, convert it to have the above characteristics
with
.IR tiffcp (1).
.SH BUGS
.IR PhotometricInterpretation =4
(holdout mask) should be handled (I had no examples to use for testing).
Images wider and taller than the display are silently truncated to avoid
crashing old versions of the window manager.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR tiffdump (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
