.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffmedian.1,v 1.9 90/11/25 11:16:02 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFFMEDIAN 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiffmedian \- apply the median cut algorithm to data in a
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffmedian
[
.B \-c
.I size
] [
.B \-f
] [
.B \-none
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I "file1 file2"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffmedian
applys median cut to an
.SM RGB
image stored in
.I file1
to generate the data in
.IR file2 .
The colormap generated has, by default, 256 entries;
this may be modified with the
.B \-c
option.
By default the image data is quantized by mapping each
pixel to the closest color values in the colormap.
If the
.B \-f
option is specified, Floyd-Steinberg dithering is done
before selecting a colormap entry.
The remaining options are used to specify a compression algorithm
to use in creating the output file or the number of
rows (scanlines) to place in each data strip in the output file.
By default, the compression algorithm is derived from the
input file and the rows per strip is calculated so that
each strip is no more than 8 kilobytes.
.SH NOTES
This program is derived from Paul Heckbert's
.I median
program.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffcmp (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
.br
"Color Image Quantization for Frame Buffer Display", Paul
Heckbert, SIGGRAPH proceedings, 1982, pp. 297-307.
