.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiff2ps.1,v 1.6 90/11/25 11:15:48 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFF2PS 1 "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
tiff2ps \- convert a grayscale
.SM TIFF
image to PostScript\(tm
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiff2ps
[
.B \-#
]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiff2ps
reads a grayscale
.SM TIFF
image and prints Encapsulated
PostScript (EPS) on the standard output that is suitable for
inclusion in PostScript documents.
The
.B \-#
option sets the initial
.SM TIFF
directory to
.IR # .
The emitted PostScript is of the form:
.sp .5
.in +5
.nf
gsave
10 dict begin
/picstr \fIbytesperrow\fP string def
\fIw\fP \fIh\fP scale
\fIw\fP \fIh\fP \fIbitspersample\fP
[\fIw\fP 0 0 \-\fIh\fP 0 \fIh\fP]
{currentfile picstr readhexstring pop} image
\&...<data>....
end
grestore
.fi
.in -5
.sp .5
where
.I w
and
.I h
are width and height of the image,
.I bytesperrow
is the number of bytes of data in each row of the image, and
.I bitspersample
is the either 1, 2, 4, or 8 (according to the
.I BitsPerSample
tag in the file).
.PP
To print the resultant PostScript the image must be positioned and
scaled on a page.
.SH BUGS
It should probably emit the prologue and epilogue needed to
print the image on a standard size page.
This program is not used because there are much better ways
to print grayscale images in PostScript.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffgt (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR tiff2bw (1),
.IR tiffsv (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
