.TH m.datum.shift 1 "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\*Lm.datum.shift\*O  - Datum shift program.
.br
(GRASS Data Import/Processing Program)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*Lm.datum.shift\*O 
\*Llat=\*Odd.mm.ss}
\*Llon=\*Odd.mm.ss}
\*Lh=\*Oheigth above ellipsoid
\*Lis=\*Oinput_spheroid 
\*Los=\*Ooutput_spheroid 
\*Ldx=\*Oxshift
.br
\*Lid=\*Oinput_datum
\*Lod=\*Ooutput_datum
.br
\*L-b\*O use block shift method
\*L-m\*O use Molodensky formula
\*L-w\*O use Bursa Wolf 7 parameter transformation (not implemented)
.SH DESCRIPTION
m.datum.shift returns geographic coordinates based
on a different datum (and spheroid/ellipsoid) than the one used to
obtain the original coordinates.
.PP
The input and output spheroids, is and
os, are the spheroids for two different datums.
The input spheroid is the one on which the original
coordinates are based. The output spheroid is that on
which the resultant coordinates will be based. The
"shifting" occurs between the two datums.  The shift
values, dx, are
constants. They indicate the mean differences between
points in the second datum versus the first as measured in
meters.
.PP
If both input and output datum id are 
listed in the system datum
table, it is sufficient to provide input and output datum for
the datum shift. The shift values, dx 
are calculated from the datum table.
.PP
The list of datums and spheroids available is somewhat dynamic.  It
may not contain exactly the ones listed below.  To
determine the current list of possible spheroids, type in
the command:
.VL 4m
\*Lm.datum.shift lat=\*O0n
.LE
A list of available spheroids will be printed on the
screen.  
To determine the current list of possible datums, type in the command:
.VL 4m
\*Lm.datum.shift lat=\*O0n
.LE
If the datum or spheroid desired is not on the list, the values should
be added to the system datum.table or ellipse.table. 
.PP
The height above the ellipsoid is usually not known in GRASS. You should approximate this by zero (default for h). Obviously the resulting height is not a reasonable value. 
.SH EXAMPLE
.VL 4m
\*Lm.datum.shift lat=\*O0n.PP

.LI "Results: 3
lat=0.00.05.72999N 
.br

lon=174.59.55.004133W
.br

(h  =  107 [m])
.DE
\*O
.LE
.SH NOTES
Essentially, the program follows these steps for the block shift method.  
The original
point, as defined by a latitude and a longitude, is
converted to geocentric coordinates.  The shift values are
added to the geocentric coordinates.  The summed values are
then converted to latitude and longitude based on the
output spheroid.
.PP
The Molodensky method uses a one-step calculation without
converting to and from geocentric coordinates. The Molodensky
formula may be inaccurate for latitudes near the poles. 
.PP
Some hints on accuracy:
.br

Generally the accuracy depends on the transformation method
used and the accuracy and spatially applicability of the parameters 
supplied to the transformation function.
You always must check if the formula is applicable to 
your problem and supplies the needed accuracy!
\*C
.DS
block shift with cartesian coordinates ~ 10 m

molodensky transformation ~ 5 m

bursa-wolf transformation ~ 1 m

3d similarity transformation ~ 1 m (needs national similarity parameters)

multiple regression equation (MRE) transformation, 
other methods up to 10 cm (generally not needed for GRASS)
.DE
\*O
The transformation parameters in datum.table are meant 
to transform from local datum to wgs84 with the Block shift method or
Molodensky function. (reverse the sign for the reverse transformation from
wgs84 to the local datum).
All transformations need input and output ellipsoid for the
calculation of Rm and Rn.
.br
You can not use the parameters for the Block shift and Molodensky formula
with any other datum shift formula. The Bursa-Wolf datum 
transformation needs 7 parameters (3 xyz-shift, 3 xyz-rotational, 
1 scale factor), which can not be used with any other formula. 
Specifically do not use the 3 xyz-shift parameters for the Bursa-
Wolf transformation with the Block shift or Molodensky formula, as the parameters
are not independent from another. 
.PP
For a brief discussion of spheroids and datums 
see \*Lm.ll2u\*O.
For a brief discussion of geocentric coordinates 
see \*Lm.ll2gc\*O.
.PP
This remains under testing is still an experimental
program.
.SH SEE ALSO
\*Lm.gc2ll\*O
\*Lm.ll2gc\*O
\*Lm.ll2u\*O
\*Lm.u2ll\*O
\*Ls.in.gps\*O
\*Lv.in.gps\*O
\*Ls.track.gps\*O
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro, U.S.Army Construction Engineering 
Research Laboratory
.br
Andreas Lange, \*Landreas.lange@rhein-main.de\*O
