.\" %Z%%M% - %I%
.TH DELTA 5G %G% "%Y%"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
delta - a system for compacting volumnous vector files
.SH SYNOPSIS
A great deal of data associated with map graphics deals with
vector information defining geographic features.
For example, coastlines, contour levels, political boundaries, etc.
are typically irregular and require a sizable number of
geographic coordinate pairs for adequate presentation.
The usual method for storing this information has been files with
traditional records of latitude and longitude sequences, often formated with
superfluous spaces and repeated constants or unrelated information.
With more and more of such information becoming available
consideration needs to be made in seeking a reasonably optimal method
of storage.
.P
This problem has generally been considered as solved by acquiring
more massive storage devices: bigger discs, optical disc, etc..
But this solution is expensive, especially when considering
the typical budgets of microcomputers and small mini-systems.
Larger storage capacity will normally be required in the long
term, but inexpensive methods can be applied which typically
provide for at least 70% compression of aforementioned 
geographic data.
.P
The first factor in compression of data is to carefully analyse
the data and ensure that the number of significant figures of the
coordinates is commensurate with the accuracy of aquisition and
intended usage.
For example, specifying a geographic coordinate in degrees to
6 fractional digits is absurd for most mapping involving scales
of 1:25000 or smaller.
A value of .000001\(de
represents about .1 meters on the ground and only applicable
to extremely large scale maps such as sub-division or plot plans.
Usually the method of aquiring the data will
determine the precision.
Digitizing from a 1:25000 scale map will, with extreme care,
justify 5 fractional digits (.004" digitizing accuracy is about 2.5 m.
or .00002\(de of latitude).
.P
Note also that traditional geographic coordinate specifications
with any mix of degrees, minutes or seconds should be converted
to a simple, single value of degrees, minutes or seconds.
Conversion of multiunit coordinates cost added cpu cycles which
should be avoided in large data bases.
.P
Once precision and coordinate units have been defined the
data should be stripped of all unnecessary information and punctuation.
In this situation, the basic records need only contain latitude
and longitude typically separated by a tab or blank.
When applicable, the decimal point should be removed and
assume an implicit location,
there should be no blank or leading zero padding and
only the minus sign employed (sign "overpunching" of the least
significant digit could be used
but needs special formatting software and may be detrimental
in subsequent steps).
Constant information related to a particular vector set should
be placed on a record immediately preceeding the vectors and
designated as such a record by beginning with a special identification
character (non-numeric).
.P
If the previous steps have been performed the data set is
about as optimal as it can get in "clear text" characters.
There will not be a significant compression
if the original data was already nearly in the recommended form,
but experience has dictated that there is a great deal of
data that can be compressed by
more than 50% by applying these procedures.
.P
The next step
.SH SEE ALSO
 MAPGEN system documentation
 mcoast(1G)
 todeg(1G)
 compress(1C)
 pack(1)
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
