.\" @(#)plotgen.5 - 1.1
.TH PLOTGEN 5 3/25/87 "USGS PLOTGEN System"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
PLOTGEN - x-y data plotting system
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.I PLOTGEN
is a package for creating plots of x-y data.
The system is designed for flexibility
by disaggregating the various processes of plot generation
into their basic elements, executable as separate UNIX commands.
Each of the functions can produce either immediate output
on host graphic terminal for previewing and/or
create a device-independent metagraphic file for later
combination with similarly scaled output of
other
.I PLOTGEN
function operations.
.P
The important linkage between
.I PLOTGEN
operations is the scaling control parameters listed below.
In general, these parameters should be appropriately determined
and edited into a "definition" file to be associated
with intended
.I PLOTGEN
operations and included as the first file for each function execution.
For example:
.RS 5
 
 plegend -oi leg.ov mydefs legend.control
 ppoint -oi dat.01.ov mydefs data.control data01
 ppoint -oi dat.02.ov mydefs data.control data02
 pgrid -oi grid.ov mydefs grid.control
.RE
.P
To produce a complete graphic, the metagraphic overlays
from the selected functional operations are combined
through execution of
.B plotter,
.B zoom,
or
.B preview.
.SH "SCALING CONTROL"
.P
The following options (basic definitions)
must occur before any other options in the
control file stream specified during execution
of any
.I PLOTGEN
programs and must be terminated by the
.I \-e
command.
For consistency with other control lines the first
character of the line may begin with a # character and
any other occurrence of a # character on the line terminates the line
(the remainder of the line can be used for comments).
.TP
.BI \-q " cts"
.br
.I Cts
specifies the counts per centimeter of the destination plotter.
If omitted, 200 counts/cm. assumed.
Normally, this option need not be specified.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]l
.br
Logarithmic axis selection.
In this case the logarithm of the respective axis is determined
prior to plotting.
Note that data values for logarithmic axis must be greater than 0.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]b " cm"
.br
.I Cm
is the respective x and y size of the gross plot area in centimeters.
If it is not specified then the respective size is set to 1 cm.
greater than required by the [x|y]s values.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]d " left,right"
.br
.I Left
and
.I right
are the respective left-hand (x-axis) or bottom (y-axis)
and right-hand (x-axis) or top (y-axis)
data limits of the specified axis.
Units are determined by the user's application.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]w " left,right"
.br
The
.I left
and
.I right
values represent the board coordinate (in cm.) corresponding
to the respective left and right data limits
((left >= 0) < right) for the respective x and y axis.
If [x|y]b previously specified then right <= board limit.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]p " f"
.br
.I F
is a real number designating the primary tick interval.
This option is not applicable for logarithmic axis.
.TP
.BI \-[x|y]n " n"
.br
The value of
.I n
is the number of subdivisions of the major tick intervals.
Note that neither
.B p
or
.B n
are required and are intended for use by
.B pgrid
in generating an axis plot.
Typically these values are determined by
.B panal.
This option is not applicable for logarithmic axis.
.TP
.BI \-e
.br
option terminates initialization and scaling.
.SH SEE ALSO
 ppoint(1), prev(1), pline(1), plegend(1), pgrid(1),
 plotter(1), panal(1)
 Graphics system documentation.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA.
