.TH r.in.hdf
.SH NAME
\fIr.in.hdf\fR \- Convert data in HDF format into a (binary) raster map layer. 
.br
.I "(GRASS Raster Data Import Program)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.in.hdf\fR
.br
\fBr.in.hdf help\fR
.br
\fBr.in.hdf\fR [\fB\-q\fR] \fBinput=\fIname\fR \fBoutput=\fIname\fR \fB[mult=\fIvalue\fB]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.in.hdf\fR allows a user to create a GRASS raster map layer from a file containing a scientific data set (SDS) in NCSA Hierarchical Data Format (HDF).
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.LP
Flags
.IP \fI-q\fR
Run quietly
.LP
Parameters
.IP \fIinput\fR
HDF file to be converted.
.IP \fIoutput\fR
Name of new raster file.
.IP \fImult\fR
Floating point multiplier. (rastfile = (int)(file.hdf * multiplier))
.LP
The raster file created will have its southwest origin at 0 East and 0 North,
with resolution of 1.  To view the new GRASS raster file, use
\fIg.region rast=newfile\fR, then use \fId.rast\fR as normal.  You may
wish to manually change the new raster's cellhd file.
.LP
NCSA HDF is a multi-object file format developed by The National Center for
Supercomputing Applications at Champaign, Illinois
for the transfer of graphical and 
floating-point data between machines.  The format defines both a raster 
type and a SDS type.  The later is basically a highly structured 
multi-dimensional array of floating point values.  A single HDF file
may contain more than one SDS, but using this program will only extract
the first SDS from the HDF file.  The SDS in the HDF file must also be
only two dimensional in order for \fIr.in.hdf\fR to accept it as input.
The HDF raster format consists of a palette and a 2D array of 8-bit numbers,
but \fIr.in.hdf\fR does not yet recognize this format, so color tables
are not transferrable.
.LP
NCSA distributes the HDF library and several public domain visualization
applications which use the HDF format.  Some commercial applications
also support HDF.  For more information, use the NCSA anonymous ftp server
\fIftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu\fR or contact:
.IP
NCSA
.br
152 Computing Applications Building
.br
605 E. Springfield Ave.
.br
Champaign, IL 61820
.br
(217) 244-0072
.SH "SEE ALSO"
r.out.hdf

.SH AUTHOR
Bill Brown, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory

