.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/ras2tiff.1,v 1.5 90/11/25 11:15:45 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH RAS2TIFF 1 "May 2, 1989"
.SH NAME
ras2tiff \- create a
.SM TIFF
file from a Sun rasterfile
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ras2tiff
[
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I "rasterfile tiff-file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ras2tiff
converts a file in the Sun rasterfile format to
.SM TIFF.
By default, the
.SM TIFF
image is created with data samples packed (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =1),
compressed with the Lempel-Ziv & Welch algorithm (\c
.IR Compression =5),
and with each strip no more than 8 kilobytes.
These characteristics can overriden, or explicitly specified
with the following options:
.B \-none
(use no compression),
.B \-packbits
(use the PackBits compression algorithm),
.B \-lzw
(use Lempel-Ziv & Welch \- default),
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
(pack
.I n
rows in each strip).
Any colormap information in the rasterfile is carried over to the
.SM TIFF
file by including a
.I Colormap
tag in the output file.
If the rasterfile has a colormap, the
.I PhotometricInterpretation
tag is set to 3 (palette);
otherwise it is set to 2 (RGB) if the depth
is 24 or 1 (min-is-black) if the depth is not 24.
.SH BUGS
Does not handle all possible rasterfiles.
In particular, 
.I ras2tiff
does not handle run-length encoded images.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
