.\"	$Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man1/RCS/tiffsv.1,v 1.6 90/11/25 11:16:04 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1989 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFFSV 1 "May 2, 1989"
.SH NAME
tiffsv \- save an image from the framebuffer in a
.SM TIFF
file (Silicon Graphics version)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tiffsv
[
.B \-none
] [
.B \-packbits
] [
.B \-lzw
] [
.B \-contig
] [
.B \-separate
] [
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
]
.I name
[
.I "x1 x2 y1 y2"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Tiffsv
saves all or part of the framebuffer in a file using the
Tag Image File Format, Revision 5.0.
By default, the image is saved with data samples packed (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =1),
compressed with the Lempel-Ziv & Welch algorithm (\c
.IR Compression =5),
and with each strip no more than 8 kilobytes.
These characteristics can overriden, or explicitly specified
with the following options:
.B \-none
(use no compression),
.B \-packbits
(use the PackBits compression algorithm),
.B \-lzw
(use Lempel-Ziv & Welch \- default),
.B \-contig
(pack samples \- default),
.B \-separate
(store samples in separate planes),
.B \-rowsperstrip
.I n
(pack
.I n
rows in each strip).
.SH NOTE
Except for the use of
.SM TIFF,
this program is equivalent to the standard
.I scrsave
program.
This means, for example, that you can use it in conjunction with
the standard
.IR icut
program simply by creating a link called
.IR scrsave ,
or by creating a shell script called
.I scrsave
that invokes
.I tiffgt
with the appropriate options.
.SH BUGS
If data are saved in compressed and in separate planes, then the
rows in each strip is silently set to one to avoid limitations
in the
.IR libtiff (3)
library.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR pal2rgb (1),
.IR tiffdump (1),
.IR tiffgt (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR libtiff (3)
