.\" @(#)ps.7p - 1.5
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH PS 7P 1/17/91 "USGS"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
ps - PostScript internal device driver for program plotter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B plotter -d ps ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
This device driver produces output compatible with
Adobe's PostScript display language.

The following
.B \-D plotter
command line control parameters can appear in any order:
.TP
.BI \-Dx
.br
Suppress PostScript
.B showpage
at end of plot.
This allows concatenation of output to create composite plot.
.TP
.BI \-Dt
.br
Suppress PostScript initialization string and
.B showpage.
This option should be employed when output is employed
with programs that convert TeX dvi files to PostScript programs.
See note below.
.TP
.BI \-Do x,y
.br
Identical to plotter
.B \-XY
command and may be discontinued.
.SH SIZE AND RESOLUTION
Maximum x and y axis sizes are respectively
5588 and 4318 (11.5\(mu8 inches) with a resolution of 200 counts/cm.
.SH SPECIAL STRING OPERATIONS
None.
.SH MECHANICAL PENS
Eight pen widths may be selected by mechanical pen numbers 0\-7 that
are respectively: 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 and 50 \(mu 0.142 points
(1/72.27 inch) wide.
By adding 8, 16 and 24 to the pen number the lines are respectively drafted
with
.B setgray
levels of .25, .5 and .75.
.SH NOTES
The following initialization operations must precede driver
output if the
.B -Dt
option is employed:
.RS 0
.sp
\f(CW/L { {rlineto} repeat currentpoint stroke moveto} bind def
 /U { moveto } bind def
 1 setlinecap
 1 setlinejoin\fR
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
 Device Independent Vector Graphics manual.
 plotter(1)
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Invalid
.B \-D
option will quietly cause initialization failure.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA 02543
