.TH p.vrml
.SH NAME
\fIp.vrml\fR \- Translates to Virtual Reality Modeling Language
.br
.I "(GRASS Map Output Program)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBp.vrml\fR
.br
\fBp.vrml help\fR
.br
\fBp.vrml\fR \fBelev=\fIname\fR \fB[color=\fIname]\fR \fB[exag=\fIvalue]\fR 
       \fBoutput=\fIname\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
p.vrml outputs GRASS data in the format of Virtual Reality Modeling
Language (VRML), for viewing on the World Wide Web.  GRASS inputs 
are a raster map for representing terrain and an optional raster 
map for color to be draped over the terrain.  
.P
This version only outputs raster maps in VRML 1.0 format.
The newer VRML 2.0 format will be more efficient for geographic
applications, as it introduces an "ElevationGrid" node so that
only the elevation points will have to be written instead
of the whole geometry.  The vast majority of VRML viewers
currently only support VRML 1.0.
.P
A vertical exaggeration factor may be specified to compensate
for elevation units which are different that map units, or to achieve
better visualization results with flat terrain.

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.LP
Parameters
.IP \fIelev\fR
Raster file for use as elevation.
.IP \fIcolor\fR
Raster file for use as color.
.IP \fIexag\fR
exaggeration
.br
default: 1.0
.IP \fIoutput\fR
Name of new VRML file.  If the extension "wrl" (world) is not present it will be added.

.SH NOTES
Future plans for this module are to allow draping of sites
objects and vector files and using the new sites format
available in floating point GRASS to embed WWW links into
site objects.  It will also be upgraded to support VRML 2.0
and will allow entering multiple preset "views" using the
existing GRASS 3d_view file format.
.P
Other possible additions:
.br
   Allow animation of elevation, color, or sites based on user interaction.
.br
   Degradation of the raster to produce TINs for improved performance.
.P
VRML is not well suited for large geometrys which can
result from even a small geographic region.  Most viewers
seem to bog down with more than 12,000 polygons, depending
on your hardware & specific viewer.  Each grid cell results
in two polygons, so a reasonable size region would be
something less than about 75x75.  For improved performance
and smaller file size, leave off a color map.  Since VRML
is ascii text, gzip works very well to significantly
compress file size.

.SH BUGS
Currently the region is transformed to a unit size, so
real geographic location is lost.  Side effects when
working in a lat-lon location are that besides general
distortion due to projection, a very small exaggeration
factor (on order of .001) must be used to compensate for
vertical units expected to be the same as map units.



.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://vag.vrml.org/
.br
http://www.sdsc.edu/vrml/

.SH AUTHOR
Bill Brown, UI GMS Laboratory

