.\" @(#)symgen.1 - 1.4
.nr LL 5.5i
.TH SYMGEN 1 11/30/90 "USGS/OEMG Systems"
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH NAME
symgen - generate symbol tables for program plotter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B symgen
font_def font_file descriptor_file[s]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Program
.B symgen
reformats vector information for drafting characters
into a binary file structure,
.I font_file
for use by the graphics driver program
.B plotter.
The file
.I font_def
contains a definition of the mapping of the
.B ascii
character set values and the symbol identifier
numbers in the
.I descriptor_file.
.P
The first line of the
.I font_def
file must containing two numeric values:
the height of the character set's upper case letters followed
by the y axis offset of the character's
origin from the character base line.
If a non-zero y-offset value is employed, the origin of the characters
is shifted from the normal central position
to the lower left hand corner.
This latter feature is useful when the symbol set is to be used
in typesetting applications.
.P
The remaining lines of the
.I font_def
file contain either an ascii
symbol or two digit numeric value of the symbol followed by the symbol
number in the
.I descriptor_file.
.P
The
.I descriptor_file
is a compressed version
(all unneccessary blanks removed)
of the Hershey symbol tables.
A line starting with a number
is the beginning of a symbol vector definition and the
number is the symbol number referenced in the
.I font_def
file.
Entries must be in ascending symbol number order and
a line beginning with a : is a continuation of the
previous line.
The pair of values immediately following the symbol number (subsequent
pairs delimited by colons) indicate the extent of the symbol to the
left and right of the symbol's center.
The remaining symbol pairs are either x\-y coordinates drafting
the symbol or pen control.
Special coordinates 128 0 and 129 0 represent
respective pen-up motion to the
next value and end of symbol definition
(note that the original Hershey usage employed
\-64 0 and \-64 \-64 respectively).
Pen-up to the first coordinate is always implied.
.P
There may be more than one 
.I descriptor_file
as long as the ascending sequence of the symbol numbers is preserved.
This allows local expansion of symbols without modifying the
original Hershey definitions.
If the
.I descriptor_file
is omitted or a \- is used then stdin is assumed.
.P
Special note: the y coordinates of the original Hershey
table are positive downward.
The current version of
.B symgen
reverses this sign convention internally.
.SH EXAMPLE
A sample execution for generating a standard font selection
for the program
.B plotter
is:
.RS 5
.sp
symgen fonts/basic-fonts/sr.D sr fonts/H????.tab
.sp
.RE
where the partial contents of fonts/basic-fonts/sr.D appear as:
.RS
.sp
.nf
	21	0	simplex roman, size 21 units
	01	899	ascii 0 cannot be used
	02	900
	...
	31	718	degree
	32	698	space
	!	714
	...
	0	700	numbers
	1	701
	...
	A	501	upper case letters
	B	502
	etc.
.fi
.sp
.RE
As demonstrated, comments can follow the second numeric entry.
.SH FILES
H0000.tab standard Hershey symbol set.
.sp
H4000.tab expansion symbols referenced on pages 24 and 25
of NBS 424.
.sp
By using the Hxxxx.tab nomenclature with the xxxx representing
the first symbol number of the file,
wild card expansion (i.e. H????.tab)
on the runline will ensure proper loading of multiple
.I
descriptor files.
.SH SEE ALSO
Device Independent Vector Graphics manual.
.br
NBS Special Publication 424, Hershey symbol tables.
.br
Font definition files and Hershey symbol table files in
directory fonts.
.SH AUTHOR/MAINTENANCE
Gerald I. Evenden, USGS, Woods Hole, MA 02543
