.TH v.in.poly
.SH NAME
\fIv.in.poly\fR \- Create a vector file of polygons centered on given locations
.br
.I "(GRASS Vector Program)"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.in.poly\fR
.br
\fBv.in.poly help\fR
.br
\fBv.in.poly\fR [\fB\-t\fR] \fB[input=\fIname]\fR \fBvect=\fIname\fR \fBradius=\fIvalue\fR
   \fB[segments=\fIvalue]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program creates a vector map of polygons of specified radius around
center points which may be input as coordinate pairs from a file or
from stdin.
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.LP
Flags
.IP \fI-t\fR
Do not automatically build topology for the new map
.LP
Parameters
.IP \fIsites\fR
Name of input file (omit or use - for input from stdin)
.br
default: - (stdin)
.IP \fIvect\fR
Name of new vector map to create
.IP \fIradius\fR
Radius of polygon's circumscribed circle
.br
default: none
.IP \fIsegments\fR
Number of straight line segments bounding the polygon
.br
default: set to give perimeter point spacing of 0.02% of the width of the
current region based on the radius given.  The smallest number of
segments that will be automatically used is six(6).
Values down to 3 may be explicitly 
selected on the command line or in input lines (see below).  A value of 3
results in an equilateral triangle, 4 a square, etc.

.SH DISCUSSION AND ADDITIONAL INPUT LINE PARAMETERS
If input is from a keyboard, a prompt will be given for each input line.
The input lines from the file or stdin should look like this:

  easting northing [label] [category desc]
              or
  easting northing [#label] [category desc]

The "#label" for is for center points piped from s.out.ascii,
like this:

  s.out.ascii -d sitefile | v.in.poly vect=newvect radius=500

The polygon (area) label and category description are optional.  "label"
is an integer and the "category desc" is any text string.  If the 
label value is missing,
the label value used is one greater than the last and the description
is "n-sided polygon," where n is the number of bounding segments.
In this way a series of sequentially numbered polygons
may be created by just giving the easting and northing center coordinates.

Two optional command lines may be interspersed with the input lines
containing the coordinate and optional label and category descriptions.
These lines begin with ".S" or ".R".  Note the restrictions on
values of radius and segments parameters below.

 .S 500
.br
Changes the number of straight line segments which bound the polygon
to a new value.  With large values (greater than 20) the polygons
will approximate circles.  The minimum value of 3 will create an
equilateral triangle.  Very large values are allowed, but the
resulting "circles" may have more definition than is needed and will
take lots of storage space for the vector map.

 .R 100
.br
Changes the radius of the circle to a new value.  Radius must be
greater than 0.0; however, very small values may give meaningless
circles and v.support may not be able to construct the topology
if the points on the perimeter are too closely spaced.

.SH BUGS
Circles in Lat-Long locations are not really round.  Really large
Lat-Long circles or polygons may look oddly misshappen when displayed.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
v.to.rast can be used to convert the polygons to raster maps for
masking, etc.

.SH AUTHOR
Dr. James R. Hinthorne, GIS Laboratory, Central Washington University.
April 1992.
