.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/rdestrip.3t,v 1.5 90/11/25 11:38:59 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFFReadEncodedStrip 3T "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
TIFFReadEncodedStrip \- read and decode a strip from an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "int TIFFReadEncodedStrip(TIFF* tif, u_int strip, u_char* buf, u_int size)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Read the specified strip of data and place
.I size
bytes of decompressed information in the (user supplied) data buffer.
The actual number of bytes of data that were placed in
.I buf
is returned;
.IR TIFFReadEncodedStrip ()
returns \-1 if an error was encountered.
.SH NOTES
The value of
.I strip
is a ``raw strip number.''
That is, the caller must take into account whether or not the
data are organized in separate planes (\c
.IR PlanarConfiguration =2).
To read a full strip of data the data buffer should typically be
at least
.I RowsPerStrip
times the number returned by
.IR TIFFScanlineSize ().
.PP
The library attempts to hide bit- and byte-ordering differences
between the image and the native machine by converting data
to the native machine order.
Bit reversal is always done if the
.I FillOrder
tag is opposite to the native machine bit order.
Byte swapping of 16- and 32-bit samples is automatically
done when
.IR Compression =1
(``no compression''), but otherwise is left to the
decompression algorithms (which should generate decompressed
data in the native byte ordering of the machine).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError (3T)
routine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFReadEncodedStrip (3T),
.IR TIFFReadRawStrip (3T)
