.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/getfield.3t,v 1.3 90/11/25 11:38:53 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1990 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH TIFFGetField 3T "May 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
TIFFGetField \- get the value(s) of a tag in an open
.SM TIFF
file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
.B "int TIFFGetField(TIFF* tif, int tag, ...)"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IR TIFFGetField ()
returns the value of a tag in the current directory associated with
the open
.SM TIFF
file
.IR tif .
The file must have been previously opened with
.IR TIFFOpen (3T).
The tag is identified by
.IR tag ,
one of the values defined in the include file
.B tiff.h
(see also the table below).
The type and number of values returned is dependent
on the tag being requested.
The programming interface uses a variable argument list
as prescribed by the
.IR varargs (3)
interface.
A 1 is returned if the tag is defined in the current
directory; otherwise a 0 is returned.
The returned values should only be interpreted if
.IR TIFFGetField ()
returns 1.
.PP
The tags understood by
.IR libtiff ,
the number of parameter values, and the
types for the returned values are shown below.
The data types are specified as in C and correspond
to the types used to specify tag values to
.IR TIFFSetField (3T).
Remember that
.IR TIFFGetField ()
returns parameter values, so all the listed
data types are pointers to storage where values
should be returned.
Consult the
.SM TIFF
specification for information on the meaning of each tag and their possible values.
.PP
.nf
.ta \w'TIFFTAG_CONSECUTIVEBADFAXLINES'u+2n +\w'Count'u+2n +\w'u_short*'u+2n
\fITag Name\fP	\fICount\fP	\fITypes\fP	\fINotes\fP
.sp 5p
TIFFTAG_ARTIST	1	char**
TIFFTAG_BADFAXLINES	1	u_long*
TIFFTAG_BITSPERSAMPLE	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_CLEANFAXDATA	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_COLORMAP	3	u_short**	1<<BitsPerSample arrays
TIFFTAG_COLORRESPONSECURVE	3	u_short**	1<<BitsPerSample entry arrays
TIFFTAG_COLORRESPONSEUNIT	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_COMPRESSION	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_CONSECUTIVEBADFAXLINES	1	u_long*
TIFFTAG_DATETIME	1	char**
TIFFTAG_DOCUMENTNAME	1	char**
TIFFTAG_FILLORDER	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_GRAYRESPONSECURVE	1	u_short**	1<<BitsPerSample entry array
TIFFTAG_GRAYRESPONSEUNIT	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_GROUP3OPTIONS	1	u_long*
TIFFTAG_GROUP4OPTIONS	1	u_long*
TIFFTAG_HOSTCOMPUTER	1	char**
TIFFTAG_IMAGEDESCRIPTION	1	char**
TIFFTAG_IMAGELENGTH	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_IMAGEWIDTH	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_MAKE	1	char**
TIFFTAG_MATTEING	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_MAXSAMPLEVALUE	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_MINSAMPLEVALUE	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_MODEL	1	char**
TIFFTAG_ORIENTATION	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_PAGENAME	1	char**
TIFFTAG_PAGENUMBER	2	u_short*
TIFFTAG_PHOTOMETRIC	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_PLANARCONFIG	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_PREDICTOR	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_RESOLUTIONUNIT	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_ROWSPERSTRIP	1	u_long*
TIFFTAG_SAMPLESPERPIXEL	1	u_short*	value must be <= 4
TIFFTAG_SOFTWARE	1	char**
TIFFTAG_STRIPOFFSETS	1	u_long**
TIFFTAG_STRIPBYTECOUNTS	1	u_long**
TIFFTAG_SUBFILETYPE	1	u_long*
TIFFTAG_THRESHHOLDING	1	u_short*
TIFFTAG_XPOSITION	1	float*
TIFFTAG_XRESOLUTION	1	float*
TIFFTAG_YPOSITION	1	float*
TIFFTAG_YRESOLUTION	1	float*
.fi
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError (3T)
routine.
.PP
.BR "Unknown field, tag 0x%x" .
An unknown tag was supplied.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR intro (3T),
.IR TIFFOpen (3T),
.IR TIFFSetField (3T),
.IR TIFFSetDirectory (3T),
.IR TIFFReadDirectory (3T),
.IR TIFFWriteDirectory (3T)
