.\" $Header: /usr/people/sam/tiff/man/man3/RCS/intro.3t,v 1.5 90/11/25 12:00:41 sam Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1988 by Sam Leffler.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This file is provided for unrestricted use provided that this
.\" legend is included on all tape media and as a part of the
.\" software program in whole or part.  Users may copy, modify or
.\" distribute this file at will.
.\"
.TH INTRO 3T "November 24, 1990"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to
.IR libtiff ,
a library for reading and writing
.SM TIFF
files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <tiffio.h>"
.br
cc file.c
.B -ltiff
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Libtiff
is a library for reading and writing data files encoded with the
.I "Tag Image File"
format, Revision 5.0.
This file format is suitable for archiving multi-color and
monochromatic image data.
.PP
The library supports several compression algorithms, as indicated
by the
.I Compression
field, including:
no compression (1),
.SM CCITT
1D Huffman compression (2),
.SM CCITT
Group 3 Facsimile compression (3),
.SM CCITT
Group 4 Facsimile compression (4),
Lempel-Ziv & Welch compression (5),
word-aligned 1D Huffman compression (32771), and
PackBits compression (32773).
In addition, several nonstandard compression algorithms are supported:
the 4-bit compression algorithm used
by the
.I ThunderScan
program (32809) (decompression only), Pixar's
Picio compression scheme (32900),
Silicon Graphics' compression scheme (32901),
and NeXT's 2-bit compression algorithm (32766) (decompression only).
Directory information may be in either little- or big-endian byte
order\-byte swapping is automatically done by the library.
Data bit ordering may be either Most Significant Bit (\c
.SM MSB\c
) to Least Significant Bit (\c
.SM LSB\c
) or
.SM LSB
to
.SM MSB.
Data may not have more than four samples per pixel.
Finally, the library does not support files in which the
.IR BitsPerSample ,
.IR Compression ,
.IR MinSampleValue ,
or
.IR MaxSampleValue
fields are defined differently on a per-sample basis
(in Rev. 5.0 the
.I Compression
tag is not defined on a per-sample basis, so this is immaterial).
.PP
In addition to the nonstandard compression schemes, the library also
supports one other nonstandard facility: a
.I Matteing
field (32995) that indicates whether or not sample
.IR SamplesPerPixel \-1
in each pixel holds Alpha (matteing) data.
When Alpha data is present, associated sample data
are assumed to be pre-multiplied by Alpha.
(The
.I Matteing
tag is a registered
.I private
tag that has been assigned to Silicon Graphics.)
.SH "LIST OF ROUTINES"
The following routines are available.
Consult specific manual pages for details on their operation.
.sp 5p
.nf
.ta \w'TIFFWriteEncodedStrip'u+2n +\w'Appears on Page'u+2n
\fIName\fP	\fIAppears on Page\fP	\fIDescription\fP
.sp 5p
TIFFClose	close.3t	close an open file
TIFFError	error.3t	library error handler
TIFFFlush	flush.3t	flush all pending writes
TIFFFlushData	flush.3t	flush pending data writes
TIFFGetField	getfield.3t	return tag value in current directory
TIFFOpen	open.3t	open a file for reading or writing
TIFFFdOpen	open.3t	open a file for reading or writing
TIFFReadDirectory	readdir.3t	read the next directory
TIFFReadEncodedStrip	rdestrip.3t	read and decode a strip of data
TIFFReadRawStrip	rdrstrip.3t	read a raw strip of data
TIFFReadScanline	readline.3t	read and decode a row of data
TIFFScanlineSize	linesize.3t	return size of a scanline
TIFFSetDirectory	setdir.3t	set the current directory
TIFFSetField	setfield.3t	set a tag's value in the current directory
TIFFWarning	warning.3t	library warning handler
TIFFWriteDirectory	writedir.3t	write the current directory
TIFFWriteEncodedStrip	wrestrip.3t	compress and write a strip of data
TIFFWriteRawStrip	wrrstrip.3t	write a raw strip of data
TIFFWriteScanline	writeline.3t	write a scanline of data
.fi
.SH "TAG USAGE"
The table below lists the
.SM TIFF
tags that are recognized and handled by the library.
If no use is indicated in the table, then the library
reads and writes the tag, but does not use it internally.
.sp 5p
.nf
.ta \w'PhotometricInterpretation'u+2n +\w'Value'u+2n +\w'R/W'u+2n
\fITag Name\fP	\fIValue\fP	\fIR/W\fP	\fILibrary's Use\fP
.sp 5p
Artist	315	R/W
BadFaxLines	326	R/W
BitsPerSample	258	R/W	lots
CellLength	265		parsed but ignored
CellWidth	264		parsed but ignored
CleanFaxData	327	R/W
ColorMap	320	R/W
ColorResponseCurves	301	R/W
ColorResponseUnit	300	R/W
Compression	259	R/W	choosing compression routines
ConsecutiveBadFaxLines	328	R/W
DateTime	306	R/W
DocumentName	269	R/W
FillOrder	266	R/W	control bit order
FreeByteCounts	289		parsed but ignored
FreeOffsets	288		parsed but ignored
GrayResponseCurve	291	R/W
GrayResponseUnit	290	R/W
Group3Options	292	R/W	used by Group 3 code
Group4Options	293	R/W
HostComputer	316	R/W
ImageDescription 	270	R/W
ImageLength	257	R/W	lots
ImageWidth	256	R/W	lots
Make	271	R/W
Matteing	32995	R/W	used by picio code
MaxSampleValue	281	R/W
MinSampleValue	280	R/W
Model	272	R/W
NewSubFileType	254	R/W	
Orientation	274	R/W
PageName	285	R/W
PageNumber	297	R/W
PhotometricInterpretation	262	R/W	Group 3 code
PlanarConfiguration	284	R/W	data i/o
Predictor	317	R/W	used by LZW code
PrimaryChromaticities	319	R/W
ResolutionUnit	296	R/W
RowsPerStrip	278	R/W	data i/o
SamplesPerPixel	277	R/W	lots
Software	305	R/W
StripByteCounts	279	R/W	data i/o
StripOffsets	273	R/W	data i/o
SubFileType	255	R/W	
Thresholding	263	R/W	
WhitePoint	318	R/W
XPosition	286	R/W
XResolution	282	R/W
YPosition	286	R/W
YResolution	283	R/W	used by Group 3 2d encoding
.nf
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
All error messages are directed to the
.IR TIFFError ()
routine which may be redefined by applications to
redirect messages.
By default messages are directed to
.B stderr
in the form:
.IR "module: message\en."
Warning messages are likewise directed to the
.IR TIFFWarning ()
routine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR fax2tiff (1),
.IR tiff2bw (1),
.IR tiffdither (1),
.IR tiffdump (1),
.IR tiffcp (1),
.IR tiffcmp (1),
.IR tiffgt (1),
.IR tiffinfo (1),
.IR tiffmedian (1),
.IR tiffsv (1),
.br
.IR "Tag Image File Format Specification \(em Revision 5.0" ,
an Aldus/Microsoft Technical Memorandum,
August 8, 1988.
.br
.IR "The Spirit of TIFF Class F" ,
an appendix to the TIFF 5.0 specification prepared by Cygnet Technologies.
.SH BUGS
It is not possible to overwrite the contents of a strip with
.IR TIFFWriteEncodedStrip ()
and
.IR TIFFWriteRawStrip ()
since they
.I append
to a strip.
Should handle more CCITT compression schemes.
Does not support random access to compressed data
that is organized with more than one row per strip.
Cannot handle unknown tags (perhaps should just save them
for the application?).
Does not do enough validity checking of a directory's contents.
