.TH v.timestamp 1 "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\*Lv.timestamp\*O print/add/remove a timestamp for a vector map
.br
(GRASS Vector Module)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\*Lv.timestamp\*O
.br
\*Lv.timestamp help\*O
.br
\*Lv.timestamp map=\*Oname 
[\*Ldate=\*Otimestamp\*O]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command has 2 modes of operation. If no date argument
is supplied, then the current timestamp for the vector map
is printed. If a date argument is specified, then the
timestamp for the vector map is set to the specified
date(s).  See EXAMPLES below.
.SH EXAMPLES
\*Lv.timestamp map=soils\*O
.br

Prints the timestamp for the "soils" vector map. If
there is no timestamp for soils, nothing is printed. If
there is a timestamp, one or two lines are printed,
depending on if the timestamp for the map consists of a
single date or two dates (ie start and end dates).
\*L     v.timestamp map=soils date='15 sep 1987'\*O
.br

Sets the timestamp for "soils" to the single date
.br

"15 sep 1987"
\*L     v.timestamp map=soils date='15 sep 1987,20 feb 1988'\*O
.br

Sets the timestamp for "soils" to have the start date
.br

"15 sep 1987" and the end date "20 feb 1988"
\*L     v.timestamp map=soils date=none\*O
.br

Removes the timestamp for the "soils" vector map
.SH COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
\*LParameters\*O
\*L map\*O:  vector map name
\*Ldate\*O: date/time stamp or date1,date2 range
.SH TIMESTAMP FORMAT
The timestamp values must use the format as described in the
GRASS datetime library.  The source tree for this library
should have a description of the format. For convience, the
formats as of Feb, 1996 are reproduced here:
There are two types of datetime values: absolute and
relative. Absolute values specify exact dates and/or times.
Relative values specify a span of time. Some examples will
help clarify:
\*L  Absolute\*O
The general format for absolute values is
day month year [bc] hour:minute:seconds timezone
day is 1-31
.br

month is jan,feb,...,dec
.br

year is 4 digit year
.br

[bc] if present, indicates dates is BC
.br

hour is 0-23 (24 hour clock)
.br

mintue is 0-59
.br

second is 0-59.9999 (fractions of second allowed)
.br

timezone is +hhmm or -hhmm (eg, -0600)
.br

parts can be missing
1994 [bc]
.br

Jan 1994 [bc]
.br

15 jan 1000 [bc]
.br

15 jan 1994 [bc] 10 [+0000]
.br

15 jan 1994 [bc] 10:00 [+0100]
.br

15 jan 1994 [bc] 10:00:23.34 [-0500]
.br

\*L Relative\*O
There are two types of relative datetime values, year-
month and day-second.	 The formats are:
[-] # years # months
.br

[-] # days # hours # minutes # seconds
The words years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds
are literal words, and the # are the numeric values.
.br

Examples:
2 years
.br

5 months
.br

2 years 5 months
.br

100 days
.br

15 hours 25 minutes 35.34 seconds
.br

100 days 25 minutes
.br

1000 hours 35.34 seconds
The following are \*Willegal\*O because it mixes year-month
and day-second (because the number of days in a month
or in a year vary):
3 months 15 days
.br

3 years 10 days
.SH BUGS
Spaces in the timestamp value are required.
.SH SEE ALSO
r.timestamp
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Neteler, Institute of Physical Geography and Landscape Ecology, 
University of Hannover
.br

based on r.timestamp by Michael Shapiro, 
.br

U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
